FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

In millions, except per share data

Net Sales

Consolidated Operating Profit

Segment Operating Profit 

Net Earnings

Diluted Earnings Per Common Share

Net Earnings

Cash Dividends Per Common Share

Average Diluted Common Shares Outstanding

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Total Assets

Total Debt, net

Total Equity 

Common Shares Outstanding at Year-End

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Capital Expenditures
Free Cash Flow

2023

2021
$  67,571  $  65,984  $  67,044 

2022

8,507 

7,389 

6,920 

27.55 

12.15 

251 

8,348 

9,123 

7,467 

7,664 

5,732 

6,315 

21.66 

22.76 

11.40 

10.60 

265 

277 

$  1,442  $  2,547  $  3,604 

  52,456 

  52,880 

  50,873 

  17,459 

  15,547 

  11,676 

6,835 

9,266 

  10,959 

240 

254 

271 

$  7,920  $  7,802  $  9,221 
(1,522) 
(1,670) 
$  6,229  $  6,132  $  7,699 

(1,691) 

NOTE:  For  additional  information  regarding  the  amounts  presented  above,  see  the  Form  10-K  portion  of  this  Annual 
Report. A reconciliation of Segment Operating Profit to Consolidated Operating Profit is included on the page preceding 
the back cover of this Annual Report. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fellow Shareholders: 

In 2023, Lockheed Martin’s 122,000 employees teamed 
together to further advance the boundaries of scientific 
discovery in support of our national defense and space 
exploration. We are the premier engineering and defense 
tech company across many disciplines from metallurgy to 
artificial intelligence, and the importance of our customers’ 
mission continued to be our driving force this year. 

Through our 21st Century Security vision, Lockheed Martin 
is leading the pursuit of harnessing digital technologies 
like 5G, AI, autonomy and distributed cloud computing 
for the national defense enterprise. By building strategic 
collaborations with industry leaders in these fields, both 
large and small, and adopting commercially developed 
technologies for defense applications, we can deliver more 
advanced capabilities faster and with greater value. 

James D. Taiclet 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

To ensure that our internal operations fully incorporate the benefits of advanced digital technologies, 
we also continue to forge ahead with our One Lockheed Martin Transformation (1LMX), which is 
modernizing all of our core business processes and systems to increase our speed, agility and 
competitiveness. Together, 21st Century Security and 1LMX are moving Lockheed Martin forward, 
and our progress is serving as a catalyst for broader transformation and innovation within the 
defense industrial base. 

In 2023, we returned to growth a year ahead of plan, and we continued our disciplined and dynamic 
capital allocation strategy to maximize shareholder value:

2023 Financial Results

$6.2
billion
Free 
Cash Flow*

$6.9
billion
Net Earnings

$67.6 
billion
Sales

$27.55
dollars
Earnings 
Per Share

$7.4 
billion
Segment 
Operating Profit*

10.9
percent
Segment 
Operating Margin*

$160.6
billion
Year-End 
Backlog

I

2023 Annual ReportProgressing Our Customers’ Missions With 21st Century Innovation

Our company’s strong performance reflects close collaboration with our 
customers, who recognize that geopolitical risk is elevated, technology 
is advancing faster than at any time in history, and that it is essential to 
maintain an effective deterrent to armed conflict and the capability to win, if 
necessary. In 2023, Lockheed Martin’s technologies and solutions advanced 
key missions for the U.S. and our allies. 

Our team’s 2023  
accomplishments

Advancing Air Superiority | Lockheed Martin further cemented its role as the preeminent 
provider of air superiority and security in 2023. The F-35 continues to be the most 
advanced, survivable and connected fighter in the world. It is the clear aircraft of choice 
for our international allies. This past year, Canada announced its purchase of 88 F-35s, 
we delivered the first four F-35s to Denmark, and Israel and South Korea announced 
they are each expanding their F-35 fleets by 25 additional aircraft. The F-16 similarly 
experienced global growth and interest. We delivered the first Greenville-built F-16 Block 
70 aircraft to Bahrain, unveiled the first F-16 Block 70 aircraft for the Slovak Republic, and 
in partnership with Romania and the Netherlands, we opened a European F-16 training 
center in Romania. We’re also continuing to lead groundbreaking aircraft innovation – the 
X-59 experimental supersonic aircraft, built by Skunk Works® and NASA, was selected as 
one of TIME’s “Top Inventions of 2023” in the Transportation category.

Modernizing Air and Missile Defense and Precision Strike Capabilities | International demand 
for our integrated air and missile defense systems remains strong. This year, Switzerland 
and Romania each signed Letters of Offer and Acceptance for PAC-3 Missile Segment 
Enhancement, marking 15 partner nations for the program. We also delivered PAC-3 
MSE to Poland, further strengthening NATO deterrence. Domestically, we delivered the 
800th Terminal High Altitude Area Defense interceptor to the U.S. government. And to 
advance the U.S. Army’s modernization efforts for precision strike, we delivered the first 
Precision Strike Missile and conducted System Qualification Tests for Extended-Range 
Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System, advancing the rocket toward operational testing. 
Lockheed Martin was also awarded contracts for Conventional Prompt Strike, the nation’s 
first surface-launched, sea-based hypersonic strike capability, and for MK21A, a new 
reentry vehicle.

Enabling Joint All-Domain Operations | As part of the U.S. Indo-Pacific 
Command’s Joint Fires Network at Northern Edge 2023, we demonstrated 
true joint force synchronization at scale by successfully integrating third-
party platforms and aircraft, and performing command and control functions 
across all services, levels of operation and multiple domains. Internationally, 
the Australian Department of Defence selected Lockheed Martin for AIR6500 
Phase 1. By connecting Australian systems and platforms that operate 
across space, air, sea, land and cyber, the AIR6500 project series will set the 
blueprint for future military operations across the globe.

Realizing Combined 
Joint All-Domain 
Command & Control

II

Lockheed Martin CorporationPioneering Scientific Discovery in Space | We continued to develop breakthrough 
technologies for human advancement and technological innovation in space. The 
Lockheed Martin-built OSIRIS-Rex return capsule successfully landed after a seven-year 
mission, during which the spacecraft tagged up with asteroid Bennu. OSIRIS-REx is the 
first U.S. mission to return samples from an asteroid to Earth and the largest samples 
from anywhere beyond the Moon.  

Reaching New Heights in 2024

Turning to 2024, we continue to focus on advancing and broadening the 
defense industry through 21st Century Security, while also increasing 
capacity in our production lines to meet sustained, increased demand for our 
time-tested programs of record. 1LMX will be key to this effort as we look to 
adopt advanced manufacturing practices, digital tools and other cutting-edge 
technologies to streamline our internal operations and realize efficiencies. 

Our work to come  
in 2024

As a result, we anticipate the return to growth we experienced in 2023 to continue in 2024 
and the years ahead. By keeping our programs of record sold, winning new business, and 
capitalizing on emerging opportunities, we have a strategy in place to responsibly grow the 
business and continue delivering shareholder value. 

Our growth would not be possible, however, without your continued support as our 
shareholders and without the remarkable work and dedication of our Lockheed Martin 
team – thank you. Armed conflict happening around the world serves as a stark reminder 
of the value of Lockheed Martin’s solutions. We look forward to continuing to partner with 
the U.S. and our allies to enable a more safe and secure world in 2024 and beyond. 

James D. Taiclet
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer

*This letter includes references to free cash flow, segment operating profit and segment operating margin, which are 
non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations between our non-GAAP measures and the nearest GAAP measures, 
please refer to the page preceding the back cover of this Annual Report. As non-GAAP financial measures are not 
intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, you should carefully read the Form 
10-K included in this Annual Report, which includes our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with 
GAAP. Additionally, this letter includes statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are based on Lockheed Martin’s 
current expectations and assumptions. For a discussion identifying important factors that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see the company’s filings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations” and “Risk Factors” in the Form 10-K portion of this Annual Report.

III

2023 Annual Report 
CORPORATE DIRECTORY
As of March 1, 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

James D. Taiclet
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Lockheed Martin Corporation 

Daniel F. Akerson
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer
General Motors Company

David B. Burritt
President and  
Chief Executive Officer
United States Steel Corporation

Bruce A. Carlson
Retired General  
United States Air Force

John M. Donovan
Retired Chief Executive Officer
AT&T Communications, LLC

Joseph F. Dunford, Jr.
Senior Managing Director  
and Partner Liberty Strategic Capital 
and Retired General  
United States Marine Corps

Vicki A. Hollub
President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Occidental Petroleum Corporation

James O. Ellis, Jr.
Retired President and
Chief Executive Officer
Institute of Nuclear Power
Operations

Thomas J. Falk
Retired Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
Kimberly-Clark Corporation

Ilene S. Gordon
Retired Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
Ingredion Incorporated

Jeh C. Johnson
Partner Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, 
Wharton & Garrison LLP and
Former Secretary of Homeland Security

Debra L. Reed-Klages
Retired Chairman, President  
and Chief Executive Officer
Sempra Energy

Patricia E. Yarrington
Retired Chief Financial Officer
Chevron Corporation

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

James D. Taiclet
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer 

Timothy S. Cahill
President, Missiles and  
Fire Control

Stephanie C. Hill
President, Rotary and 
Mission Systems

Maryanne R. Lavan
Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary 

Robert M. Lightfoot
President, Space 

Jesus Malave
Chief Financial Officer

IV

H. Edward Paul
Vice President and Controller

Maria A. Ricciardone
Vice President, Treasurer 
and Investor Relations 

Frank A. St. John 
Chief Operating Officer 

Gregory M. Ulmer 
President, Aeronautics

Lockheed Martin CorporationUNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023

or

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ______ to ______
Commission file number 1-11437

LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)

6801 Rockledge Drive,  

Bethesda,

Maryland

(Address of principal executive offices)

52-1893632

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

20817

(Zip Code)

(301) 897-6000
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class
Common Stock, $1 par value

Trading Symbol(s)
LMT

Name of each exchange on which registered
New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒    No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐    No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such  shorter  period  that  the  registrant  was  required  to  file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to  such  filing 
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒    No ☐

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  has  submitted  electronically  every  Interactive  Data  File  required  to  be  submitted  pursuant  to  Rule  405  of 
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). 
Yes ☒    No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an 
emerging  growth  company.  See  the  definitions  of  “large  accelerated  filer,”  “accelerated  filer,”  “smaller  reporting  company,”  and  “emerging  growth 
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer ☒   Accelerated filer ☐   Non–accelerated filer ☐   Smaller reporting company ☐   Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or 
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control 
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued 
its audit report. ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the 
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received 
by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐    No ☒

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant computed by reference to the last sales price of 
such  stock,  as  of  the  last  business  day  of  the  registrant’s  most  recently  completed  second  fiscal  quarter,  which  was  June  23,  2023,  was  approximately 
$115.2 billion.

There were 241,643,304 shares of our common stock, $1 par value per share, outstanding as of January 19, 2024.

Portions  of  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation’s  2024 Definitive Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. The 2024
Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year to which this report
relates.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation

Form 10-K
For the Year Ended December 31, 2023

Table of Contents

PART I

ITEM 1.

ITEM 1A.

ITEM 1B.

ITEM 1C.

ITEM 2.

ITEM 3.

ITEM 4.

Business .................................................................................................................................................

Risk Factors............................................................................................................................................

Unresolved Staff Comments ..................................................................................................................

Cybersecurity .........................................................................................................................................

Properties ...............................................................................................................................................

Legal Proceedings ..................................................................................................................................

Mine Safety Disclosures ........................................................................................................................

ITEM 4(a).

Information about our Executive Officers .............................................................................................

PART II

ITEM 5.

ITEM 6.

ITEM 7.

ITEM 7A.
ITEM 8.

ITEM 9.
ITEM 9A.

ITEM 9B.

ITEM 9C.

PART III

ITEM 10.
ITEM 11.
ITEM 12.

ITEM 13.

ITEM 14.

PART IV

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities ....................................................................................................................................
[Reserved] ..............................................................................................................................................

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ................
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk...............................................................

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................................................................................

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure................
Controls and Procedures ........................................................................................................................

Other Information...................................................................................................................................
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections ..............................................

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.....................................................................

Executive Compensation........................................................................................................................
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters ...................................................................................................................................................
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.......................................

Principal Accounting Fees and Services ................................................................................................

ITEM 15.
ITEM 16.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules..........................................................................................
Form 10-K Summary .............................................................................................................................

SIGNATURES ....................................................................................................................................................................

Page 

3

10

22

22

24

24

24

25

27
28

29
52

53

97
97

99
99

99

99

100
100

100

101
104

105

ITEM  1.

Business

General

PART I

We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, 
integration  and  sustainment  of  advanced  technology  systems,  products  and  services.  We  also  provide  a  broad  range  of 
management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. Our main areas of focus 
are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity. We serve both U.S. 
and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal 
customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. 

We operate in a complex and evolving global security environment. Our strategy consists of the design and development of 
platforms and systems that meet the current needs of our customers and the future requirements of 21st Century Security. Our 
vision for 21st Century Security is to accelerate the adoption of advanced networking and leading-edge technologies into our 
national defense enterprise, while enhancing the performance and value of our platforms and products for our customers. The 
aim  of  21st  Century  Security  is  to  integrate  new  and  existing  systems  across  all  domains  with  advanced,  open-architecture 
networking and operational technologies to make defense forces more agile, adaptive and unpredictable. 

Twenty-first  Century  Security  is  an  overarching  vision  that  guides  our  investment  and  strategy.  We  are  also  focused  on 
four elements for potential growth in the near to mid-term: current programs of record, classified programs, hypersonics and 
new awards. We have multiple programs of record from each business segment that are entering growth stages, including the 
F-35  sustainment  activity  (Aeronautics);  increased  Patriot  Advanced  Capability-3  (PAC-3)  production  rates  and  increased 
demand  for  High  Mobility  Artillery  Rocket  System  (HIMARS®)  and  Guided  Multiple  Launch  Rocket  Systems  (GMLRS) 
(Missiles  and  Fire  Control);  radar  surveillance  systems  and  CH-53K  King  Stallion  heavy  lift  helicopter  (Rotary  and  Mission 
Systems); and the modernization and enhancements to the Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) (Space). We are engaged 
in significant classified development programs and pending successful achievement of the objectives within those programs, we 
expect to begin the transition from development to production over the next few years. We are currently performing on multiple 
hypersonics programs and following the successful completion of ongoing testing and evaluation activity, multiple programs 
are  expected  to  enter  early  production  phases  through  2026.  Finally,  we  are  always  in  pursuit  of  new  program  awards  to 
develop future platforms that enable us to continue to place security capability into the market and expand our global reach.

Key to enabling success of our strategy is developing differentiating technologies, forging strategic partnerships, including 
with commercial companies, executing on our multi-year business transformation initiative to enhance our digital infrastructure 
and increase efficiencies and collaboration throughout our business and maintaining fiscal discipline. Underpinning our ability 
to  execute  our  strategy  is  our  talent  and  culture.  We  invest  substantially  in  our  people  to  ensure  that  our  workforce  has  the 
technical  skills  necessary  to  succeed,  and  we  expect  to  continue  to  invest  internally  in  innovative  technologies  that  address 
rapidly  evolving  mission  requirements  for  our  customers.  We  also  will  continue  to  evaluate  our  portfolio  and  will  make 
strategic  acquisitions  or  divestitures,  as  appropriate,  while  deepening  our  connection  to  commercial  industry  through 
cooperative partnerships, joint ventures and equity investments.

Business Segments

We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) 

and Space. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. 

Aeronautics

Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade 
of  advanced  military  aircraft,  including  combat  and  air  mobility  aircraft,  unmanned  air  vehicles  and  related  technologies. 
Aeronautics also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various classified programs. Aeronautics’ major programs include:

•
•
•
•

F-35 Lightning II - international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter;
C-130 Hercules - international tactical airlifter;
F-16 Fighting Falcon - combat-proven, international multi-role fighter; and
F-22 Raptor - air dominance and multi-role fifth generation stealth fighter.

The  F-35  program  is  our  largest  program,  generating  26%  of  our  total  consolidated  net  sales,  as  well  as  64%  of 
Aeronautics’  net  sales  in  2023.  The  F-35  program  consists  of  multiple  development,  production  and  sustainment  contracts. 
Development is focused on modernization of F-35’s capability and addressing emerging threats. Sustainment provides logistics 

3

and training support for the aircraft delivered to F-35 customers. For additional information on the F-35 program, see “Status of 
the F-35 Program” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. See also Item 
1A - Risk Factors for a discussion of risks related to the F-35 program.

In  addition  to  the  aircraft  programs  above,  Aeronautics  is  involved  in  advanced  development  programs  incorporating 
innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as 
Skunk Works®, is focused on future systems, including unmanned and manned aerial systems and next generation capabilities 
for air dominance, hypersonics, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue 
to explore technology advancement and insertion into our existing aircraft. We also are involved in numerous network-enabled 
activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies 
to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production.

Missiles and Fire Control

MFC  provides  air  and  missile  defense  systems;  tactical  missiles  and  air-to-ground  precision  strike  weapon  systems; 
logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; manned and 
unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC also has contracts with the U.S. Government for various 
classified programs. MFC’s major programs include:

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense 
programs. PAC-3 is an advanced defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and 
eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. 
Government and international customers designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth’s atmosphere.
The  Multiple  Launch  Rocket  System  (MLRS),  Precision  Strike  Missile  (PrSM),  Joint  Air-to-Surface  Standoff  Missile 
(JASSM), Long Range Anti-Ship Missile (LRASM), and Hellfire tactical and strike missile programs. MLRS is a highly 
mobile,  automatic  system  that  fires  surface-to-surface  rockets  and  missiles  from  the  M270  and  High  Mobility  Artillery 
Rocket  System  (HIMARS)  platforms  produced  for  the  U.S.  Army  and  international  customers  and  PrSM  is  the  next 
generation of precision strike surface-to-surface weapon systems that is compatible with the MLRS family of launchers in 
support of the U.S. Army. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the 
U.S.  Air  Force  and  international  customers.  LRASM  is  a  precision  guided  anti-ship  missile  derived  from  JASSM  and 
designed to interdict a variety of surface threats at very long range and produced for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, and 
international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for 
the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. 
The  Apache  fire  control  system,  Sniper  Advanced  Targeting  Pod  (SNIPER®)  and  Infrared  Search  and  Track  (IRST21®) 
sensors  and  global  sustainment  programs.  The  Apache  fire  control  system  provides  weapons-targeting  capability  for  the 
Apache  helicopter  for  the  U.S.  Army  and  international  customers.  SNIPER  is  a  targeting  system  for  several  fixed-wing 
aircraft and is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers. IRST21 provides long-range infrared detection 
and tracking of airborne threats and is used on several fixed-wing aircraft. IRST21 is produced for the U.S. Air Force, the 
U.S. Navy, the National Guard and international customers. 
The Special Operations Forces Global Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS) program, which provides logistics support 
services to the special operations forces of the U.S. military.
Hypersonics  programs,  which  include  several  programs  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  U.S.  Army  to  design,  develop  and 
build hypersonic strike weapons.
The Javelin program, which is a one-person portable and platform-employable anti-tank and multi-target precision weapon 
system.  Javelin  was  developed  and  is  currently  produced  for  the  U.S.  Army  and  U.S.  Marine  Corps  by  a  joint  venture 
between Lockheed Martin and RTX Corporation.

Rotary and Mission Systems

RMS  designs,  manufactures,  services  and  supports  various  military  and  commercial  helicopters,  surface  ships,  sea  and 
land-based missile defense systems, radar systems, laser systems, sea and air-based mission and combat systems, command and 
control  mission  solutions,  cyber  solutions,  and  simulation  and  training  solutions.  RMS  also  has  contracts  with  the  U.S. 
Government for various classified programs. RMS’ major programs include:

•

•

Sikorsky helicopter programs such as those related to the BLACK HAWK®, Seahawk® and CH-53K King Stallion heavy 
lift helicopters which are in service with U.S. and foreign governments, the Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH) utilized by 
the U.S. Air Force, and the VH-92A helicopter for the U.S. Marine One transport mission.
Integrated warfare systems and sensors (IWSS) programs such as Aegis Combat System (Aegis) programs that serve as an 
air and missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and land-based element of 
the  U.S.  missile  defense  system,  and  the  Littoral  Combat  Ship  (LCS)  and  Multi-Mission  Surface  Combatant  (MMSC) 

4

programs to provide surface combatant ships for the U.S. Navy and international customers that are designed to operate in 
shallow waters and the open ocean.
Command,  control,  communications,  computers,  cyber,  combat  systems,  intelligence,  surveillance,  and  reconnaissance 
(C6ISR) programs such as the Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) program to provide 
an  air  operations  center  for  the  Ballistic  Missile  Defense  System  for  the  U.S.  Government,  undersea  combat  systems 
programs largely serving the U.S. Navy, and Australia's Joint Air Battle Management System (AIR 6500). 
Training and logistics solutions (TLS) programs such as those providing sustainment services and programs that provide 
simulators and associated training to U.S. military and foreign government customers.

•

•

Space

Space  is  engaged  in  the research  and  design, development, engineering and  production of satellites, space transportation 
systems,  and  strategic,  advanced  strike,  and  defensive  systems.  Space  provides  network-enabled  situational  awareness  and 
integrates  complex  space  and  ground  global  systems  to  help  our  customers  gather,  analyze  and  securely  distribute  critical 
intelligence  data.  Space  is  also  responsible  for  various  classified  systems  and  services  in  support  of  vital  national  security 
systems. Space’s major programs include:

•

•

•

The  Next  Generation  Overhead  Persistent  Infrared  (Next  Gen  OPIR)  system,  which  provides  the  U.S.  Space  Force  with 
enhanced worldwide missile warning capabilities.
The  Trident  II  D5  Fleet  Ballistic  Missile  (FBM),  a  program  with  the  U.S.  Navy  for  the  only  submarine-launched 
intercontinental ballistic missile currently in production in the U.S.
The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for NASA utilizing new technology for human exploration 
missions beyond low earth orbit.

• Next  Generation  Interceptor  (NGI),  a  program  with  the  Missile  Defense  Agency  (MDA)  utilizing  next  generation 

propulsion and sensors to provide homeland missile defense.

• Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Space Force. 
• Hypersonics programs, which include several programs with the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy to design, develop and build 

•

hypersonic strike weapons.
The Transport Layer program, a small satellite program designed to support resilient space communications for the Space 
Development Agency.

Intellectual Property

We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks related to the products 
and services we provide. We also develop and own other intellectual property, including copyrights, trade secrets and research, 
development  and  engineering  know-how,  that  contributes  significantly  to  our  business.  In  addition,  we  license  intellectual 
property  to  and  from  third  parties.  The  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation  (FAR)  and  Defense  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Supplement (DFARS) provide the U.S. Government certain rights in intellectual property, including patents, developed by us 
and  our  subcontractors  and  suppliers  in  performance  of  government  contracts  or  with  government  funding.  The  U.S. 
Government may use or authorize others, including competitors, to use such intellectual property. See the discussion of matters 
related to our intellectual property in Item 1A - Risk Factors. Non-U.S. governments also may have certain rights in patents and 
other intellectual property developed in performance of our contracts for them. Although our intellectual property rights in the 
aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual 
property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a 
whole.

Research and Development

We  conduct  research  and  development  (R&D)  activities  using  our  own  funds  (referred  to  as  company-funded  R&D  or 
independent  research  and  development  (IR&D))  and  under  contractual  arrangements  with  our  customers  (referred  to  as 
customer-funded R&D) to enhance existing products and services and to develop future technologies. R&D costs include basic 
research,  applied  research,  concept  formulation  studies,  design,  development,  and  related  test  activities.  See  “Note  1  – 
Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” (under the caption “Research and development and similar costs”) included 
in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality

Some of  our products  require  relatively scarce raw materials,  such as rare  earth minerals. Other important materials and 
components, on which certain of our products rely, include aluminum, titanium, carbon fiber and advanced microelectronics, 
such as semiconductors. We rely on other companies to provide materials, components and products and to perform a portion of 

5

the services that are provided to our customers under the terms of most of our contracts. Although long-term agreements have 
historically helped enable a continued supply of these materials, the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain 
challenges, supplier disputes, regulatory restrictions, and inflationary pressures have caused certain parts’ shortages, extended 
lead times and pricing escalations affecting certain sources of supply. We continue working to minimize the impact of supply 
chain  challenges  on  us  but  many  of  the  challenges  are  industry  wide  or  caused  by  geopolitical  events  and  general  economic 
conditions  that  are  outside  of  our  control.  These  supplier  disruptions  have  resulted  in  delays  and  increased  costs  and  have 
adversely affected our program performance and operating results. These dynamics are expected to continue in 2024. For more 
information on the risks related to our suppliers and raw materials, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors, however, can affect the distribution of 
our  sales  between  accounting  periods,  including  the  timing  of  government  awards,  the  availability  of  government  funding, 
product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Human Capital Resources

Due to the specialized nature of our business, our performance depends on identifying, attracting, developing, motivating 
and  retaining  a  highly  skilled  workforce  with  the  requisite  skills  and,  in  many  cases,  security  clearances,  in  multiple  areas, 
including engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development and strategy and 
management.  Our  human  capital  management  strategy,  which  we  refer  to  as  our  people  strategy,  is  tightly  aligned  with  our 
business needs and technology strategy. During 2023, our human capital efforts were focused on continuing to accelerate the 
transformation of our technology for workforce management through investments in upgraded systems and processes. We also 
focused  on  increasing  our  ability  to  meet  the  quickly  changing  needs  of  the  business,  all  while  maintaining  a  respectful, 
supportive  and  inclusive  working  environment  and  culture.  We  use  a  variety  of  human  capital  measures  in  managing  our 
business,  including:  workforce  demographics  and  metrics  in  relation  to  representation,  attrition,  hiring,  promotions  and 
leadership; and talent management metrics, including retention rates of top talent.

Workforce Demographics

As  of  December  31,  2023,  we  had  a  highly  skilled  workforce  made  up  of  approximately  122,000  employees,  including 
approximately 65,000 engineers, scientists and information technology professionals. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 
93% of our workforce was located in the U.S. and approximately 19% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining 
agreements  with  various  unions.  A  number  of  our  existing  collective  bargaining  agreements  expire  in  any  given  year. 
Historically,  we  have  been  successful  in  renegotiating  expiring  agreements  without  any  material  disruption  of  operating 
activities, and management considers employee and union relations to be good. This has continued to be the case in 2023.

Diversity and Inclusion 

Diversity and inclusion is a business imperative for us, as we believe that it is key to our future success. We have focused 
our  diversity  and  inclusion  initiatives  on  employee  recruitment,  including  active  engagement  and  outreach  with  minority-
serving institutions, employee training and development, such as efforts focused on expanding the diverse talent pipeline, and 
employee engagement, including through participation in our Business Resource Groups. Our Business Resource Groups are 
voluntary, employee-led groups that are open to all employees while being aligned to demographic categories that we annually 
report  on  to  the  U.S.  Government,  including  race/ethnicity,  gender,  disability  and  veteran  status.  The  categories  have  been 
expanded to gain a deeper understanding of our workforce to include military service, sexual-orientation and gender identity 
which  are  not  part  of  our  annual  government  submission.  The  Business  Resource  Groups  foster  a  diverse  and  inclusive 
workplace aligned with our organizational mission, values, goals and business practices and drive awareness and change within 
our organization. Through these and other focused efforts, including workforce availability, we have improved the diversity of 
our  overall  U.S.  workforce  and  within  leadership  positions,  specifically  in  the  representation  of  women,  people  of  color  and 
people  with  disabilities.  Additionally,  veteran  representation  in  our  workforce  remains  outstanding,  at  almost  four  times  the 
current annual national percentage of veterans in the civilian workforce.

Employee Profile (as of December 31, 2023):

Overall
Executives(b)

Women(a)
23%

25%

People of Color(a)
32%

17%

Veterans(a)
21%

21%

People with Disabilities(a)
12%

13%

(a) Based  on  employees  who  self-identify.  Includes  only  U.S.  employees  and  expatriates  except  for  data  relating  to  women,  which  also 
includes local country nationals. Excludes casual workers, interns/co-ops and employees of certain subsidiaries and joint ventures.

(b)

Executive is defined as director-level (one level below vice president) or higher.

6

Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development

We strive to hire, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. During 2023, we hired nearly 15,000 employees. An 
integral part of our people strategy is early career hiring through college and intern pipelines, particularly in technical fields and 
critical  skills  areas.  During  the  2022-2023  academic  year,  we  hired  a  record  6,000  college  hires  and  interns.  In  addition  to 
efforts  focused  on  recruitment,  we  also  monitor  employee  attrition  across  a  broad  array  of  categories  and  segments  of  the 
population,  including  with  respect  to  diversity  and  top  talent.  Critical  to  attracting  and  retaining  top  talent  is  employee 
satisfaction,  and  we  regularly  conduct  employee  engagement  surveys  to  gauge  employee  satisfaction  and  to  understand  the 
effectiveness of our people strategy and assess employee’s intent to stay. We attract and reward our employees by providing 
market  competitive  compensation  and  benefits,  including  incentives  and  recognition  plans  that  extend  to  non-represented 
employees of all levels in our organization and encourage excellence through our pay-for-performance philosophy. We have a 
hybrid workforce model that encourages flexible working arrangements for employees and teams who can meet our customer 
commitments remotely, which has helped recruit and retain talent. In addition, we invest in the development of our employees 
through  training,  apprenticeship  programs,  security  clearance  sponsorship,  leadership  development  plans  and  offering  tuition 
assistance programs for continuing education or industry certifications. We believe this employee development makes us more 
competitive and also assists with leadership succession planning throughout the corporation.

Employee Safety and Health

Through  our  safety  and  health  program  we  seek  to  optimize  our  operations  with  targeted  safety,  health  and  wellness 
opportunities  designed  to  provide  safe  work  conditions,  and  a  healthy  work  environment,  promote  workforce  resiliency  and 
enhance business value. As part of this program, we track employee health and safety measures, including quarterly and yearly 
targets related to the number of injury and illness incidents that occur at work, those incidents that result in days lost, and the 
number of days lost due to workplace injuries and illness.

For information on the risks related to our human capital resources, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Competition

We  compete  with  many  different  companies  in  the  defense  and  aerospace  industry.  The  Boeing  Company,  General 
Dynamics,  L3Harris  Technologies,  Northrop  Grumman,  and  RTX  Corporation  are  some  of  our  primary  competitors.  Key 
characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of 
competitors  bidding  on  program  opportunities  and  the  existence  of  bid  protests  (competitor  protests  of  U.S.  Government 
procurement awards).

We often collaborate with our competitors through teaming arrangements in efforts to provide our customers with the best 
mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. Additionally, a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon 
ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, serve as a subcontractor to the ultimate prime contracting company. It is 
not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of 
that same competitor on other contracts.

Our broad portfolio of products and services competes domestically and internationally against products and services of the 
companies  listed  above,  numerous  smaller  competitors  and  startups,  and  increasingly,  non-traditional  and  non-U.S.  defense 
contractors. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage or facilitate expanded competition. 
Principal factors of competition  include: the technical excellence, reliability, safety and  cost  competitiveness  of our products 
and  services  to  the  customer;  technical  and  management  capability;  the  ability  to  innovate  and  develop  new  products  and 
technologies  that  improve  mission  performance  and  adapt  to  dynamic  threats;  successful  program  execution  and  on-time 
delivery  of  complex,  integrated  systems;  the  reputation  and  customer  confidence  derived  from  past  performance;  our 
demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements and successfully manage customer relationships; and 
our global footprint and accessibility to customers. 

The  competition  for  international  sales  for  most  of  our  products  and  services  is  subject  to  U.S.  Government  stipulations 
(e.g.,  export  restrictions,  market  access,  technology  transfer,  industrial  cooperation  and  contracting  practices).  We  compete 
against U.S. and non-U.S. companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments. International competitions 
are also subject to different laws or contracting practices of international governments, which affects how we structure our bid 
for  the  procurement.  In  many  international  procurements,  the  purchasing  government’s  relationship  with  the  U.S.  and  its 
industrial  cooperation  programs  designed  to  enhance  local  industry  are  important  factors  in  determining  the  outcome  of  a 
competition.  It  is  common  for  international  customers  to  require  contractors  to  comply  with  their  industrial  cooperation 
regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have entered into foreign offset agreements as part of securing 

7

some  international  business.  For  more  information  concerning  our  international  business,  see  “International  Business”  in 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Technological advances in such areas as additive manufacturing, data analytics, digital engineering, artificial intelligence, 
advanced materials, autonomy and robotics, and new business models such as commercial access to space, are enabling new 
factors of competition for both traditional and non-traditional competitors. 

Regulatory Matters

Our  business  is  heavily  regulated.  We  contract  with  numerous  U.S.  Government  agencies  and  entities,  principally  all 
branches of the U.S. military and NASA. We also contract with similar government authorities in other countries, either under 
the  foreign  military  sales  (FMS)  program,  contracted  through  the  U.S.  Government,  or  as  a  direct  sale  with  the  foreign 
government authority, which regulates these sales in a manner similar to the U.S. Government.

Government Contracts

We must comply with, and are affected by, laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance 
of  U.S.  Government  and  other  governments’  contracts,  including  foreign  governments.  These  laws  and  regulations,  among 
other things:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations; 

impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP);

impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define which costs can be charged to the 
U.S. Government, how and when costs can be charged, and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain U.S. 
Government and foreign contracts; 

require specific security controls to protect U.S. Government controlled unclassified information and that our suppliers that 
have access to this type of information comply with cyber security regulations;

restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, 
services and technical data;

prohibit  the  acquisition  from  or  use  by  contractors  of  materials,  products  or  services  procured  from  certain  countries  or 
entities  located  outside  the  United  States  (e.g.,  the  prohibition  on  the  acquisition  of  sensitive  materials  from  non-allied 
foreign nations and prohibition on the acquisition and use of certain telecommunications and video surveillance services or 
equipment); and

require the review and approval of contractor business systems, including accounting systems, estimating systems, earned 
value  management  systems  for  managing  cost  and  schedule  performance  on  certain  complex  programs,  purchasing 
systems,  material  management  and  accounting  systems  for  planning,  controlling  and  accounting  for  the  acquisition,  use, 
issuing and disposition of material, and property management systems. 

The U.S. Government and in limited cases certain other governments may terminate any of our government contracts and 
subcontracts either at their convenience or for default based on our performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we 
generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs. If a 
contract  is  terminated  for  default,  we  generally  are  entitled  to  payment  for  our  work  that  has  been  accepted  by  the  U.S. 
Government  or  other  governments;  however,  the  U.S.  Government  and  other  governments  could  make  claims  to  reduce  our 
recovery  or  recoup  its  procurement  costs  and  could  assess  other  special  penalties.  For  more  information  regarding  the  U.S. 
Government’s and other governments’ right to terminate our contracts and the risks of doing work internationally, see Item 1A - 
Risk Factors. For more information regarding government contracting laws and regulations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors as well 
as  “Critical  Accounting  Policies  -  Contract  Accounting  /  Sales  Recognition”  in  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Additionally, our programs for the U.S. Government often operate for periods of time under undefinitized contract actions 
(UCAs), which means that we begin performing our obligations before the terms, specifications or price are finally agreed to 
between the parties. Although in most cases we historically have reached mutual agreement to definitize our UCAs, the U.S. 
Government has the ability to unilaterally definitize contracts and has done so in the past. Absent a successful appeal of such 
action,  the  unilateral  definitization  of  the  contract  obligates  us  to  perform  under  terms  and  conditions  imposed  by  the  U.S. 
Government.  The  U.S.  Government’s  power  to  unilaterally  definitize  a  contract  can  affect  our  ability  to  negotiate  mutually 
agreeable contract terms and, if a contract is unilaterally imposed upon us, it may negatively affect our expected profit and cash 
flows on a program or impose burdensome terms.

8

Classified Contracts

A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results 
of  classified  contracts  are  included  in  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  The  business  risks  and  capital  requirements 
associated with classified contracts historically have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government contracts. 
However,  under  certain  classified  fixed  price  development  and  production  contracts,  we  are  unable  to  insure  risk  of  loss  to 
government  property  because  of  the  classified  nature  of  the  contracts  and  the  inability  to  disclose  classified  information 
necessary  for  underwriting  and  claims  to  commercial  insurers.  Our  internal  controls  addressing  the  financial  reporting  of 
classified contracts are consistent with our internal controls for our non-classified contracts.

Commercial Aircraft

Our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with U.S. and international regulations governing production and 

quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety.

Environmental

Our operations are subject to and affected by various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and 
regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise regulating the protection of the environment. 
As a result of these environmental protection laws, we are involved in environmental remediation at some of our current and 
former facilities and at third-party-owned sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party as a result of our 
prior activities and those of our predecessor companies. Although the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be 
reasonably estimated, the costs of environmental compliance have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a 
material  adverse  effect  on  our  earnings,  financial  position  and  cash  flow,  primarily  because  substantially  all  of  our 
environmental  costs  are  allowable  in  establishing  the  price  of  our  products  and  services  under  our  contracts  with  the  U.S. 
Government. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required 
for remediation or cleanup to the extent that they are probable and estimable, see “Critical Accounting Policies - Environmental 
Matters”  in  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  and  “Note  14  –  Legal 
Proceedings,  Commitments  and  Contingencies”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  See  also  the 
discussion of environmental matters in Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Climate and Sustainability Reporting and Regulation 

There is an increasing global regulatory focus on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and their potential impacts relating to 
climate change. Various jurisdictions around the world in which we operate, including the U.S., the European Union, the United 
Kingdom,  Australia  and  certain  U.S.  States,  have  adopted  or  proposed  laws  related  to  climate  and  sustainability  reporting. 
These and future laws, regulations or policies in response to concerns over GHG emissions such as carbon taxes, mandatory 
reporting  and  disclosure  obligations,  including  environmental  requirements  for  certain  federal  contractors  and  subcontractors 
and  the  SEC’s  proposed  climate-related  disclosure  rule,  and  changes  in  procurement  policies,  including  the  use  of 
environmental goals in proposal evaluation, could significantly increase our operational and compliance burdens and costs. We 
monitor  developments  in  climate-change  related  regulation  for  their  potential  effect  on  us  and  also  have  a  comprehensive 
sustainability program that seeks to mitigate our impact on the environment, including targets to reduce our GHG emissions. 
For more information on the risk of climate-change related regulation, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.

Other Applicable Regulations

Our  businesses  and  operations  are  subject  to  both  U.S.  and  non-U.S.  government  laws,  regulations  and  procurement 
policies and practices, including regulations relating to product testing, import-export controls, technology transfer restrictions, 
foreign  investment,  tariffs,  taxation,  repatriation  of  earnings,  sanctions,  exchange  controls,  the  Foreign  Corrupt  Practices  Act 
and other anti-corruption laws and anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Control Reform Act of 2018. 

Available Information

We are a Maryland corporation formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin Marietta 
Corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. Our telephone 
number is (301) 897-6000 and our website address is www.lockheedmartin.com. 

We  make  our  website  content  available  for  information  purposes  only.  It  should  not  be  relied  upon  for  investment 

purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).

9

Throughout  this  Form  10-K,  we  incorporate  by  reference  information  from  parts  of  other  documents  filed  with  the  U.S. 
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (SEC).  The  SEC  allows  us  to  disclose  important  information  by  referring  to  it  in  this 
manner. 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our 
annual  stockholders’  meetings  and  amendments  to  those  reports  are  available  free  of  charge  on  our  website, 
www.lockheedmartin.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, 
the SEC. In addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also 
maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, 
including Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and are based on our current expectations and assumptions. The 
words “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “outlook,” “scheduled,” “forecast” and similar 
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and 
are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Statements  and  assumptions  with  respect  to  future  sales,  income  and  cash  flows,  growth,  program  performance,  the 
outcome of litigation, anticipated pension cost and funding, environmental remediation cost estimates, planned acquisitions or 
dispositions  of  assets,  or  the  anticipated  consequences  are  examples  of  forward-looking  statements.  Numerous  factors, 
including  the  risk  factors  described  in  the  following  section,  could  cause  our  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  those 
expressed in our forward-looking statements.

Our actual financial results likely will be different from any projections due to the inherent nature of projections. Given 
these uncertainties, forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking 
statements  contained  in  this  Form  10-K  speak  only  as  of  the  date  of  its  filing.  Except  where  required  by  applicable  law,  we 
expressly  disclaim  a  duty  to  provide  updates  to  forward-looking  statements  after  the  date  of  this  Form  10-K  to  reflect 
subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The 
forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal 
securities laws.

ITEM 1A.

Risk Factors

An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. While we seek to identify, manage 
and mitigate risks to our business, risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. The outcome of one or 
more of these risks could have a material effect on our operating results, financial position, or cash flows. You should carefully 
consider  the  following  factors,  in  addition  to  the  other  information  contained  in  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K,  before 
deciding to trade in our common stock or debt securities.

Risks Related to our Reliance on Government Contracts, our Industry and the Economy

We depend heavily on contracts with the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business. Changes in the U.S. 
Government’s priorities, or delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We  derived  73%  of  our  total  consolidated  net  sales  from  the  U.S.  Government  in  2023,  including  64%  from  the 
Department of Defense (DoD). We expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under U.S. Government 
contracts. A reduction in overall U.S. defense spending, on an absolute or inflation-adjusted basis, because of shifting priorities, 
budget compromises or otherwise could adversely affect our business. Budget uncertainty, the potential for U.S. Government 
shutdowns, the use of continuing resolutions, and the federal debt ceiling can adversely affect our industry and the funding for 
our programs. If appropriations are delayed or a government shutdown were to occur and continue for an extended period of 
time,  we  could  be  at  risk  of  reduced  orders,  program  cancellations  and  other  disruptions  and  nonpayment.  When  the  U.S. 
Government  operates  under  a  continuing  resolution,  new  contract  and  program  starts  are  restricted  and  funding  for  our 
programs may be unavailable, reduced or delayed. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. 
Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year (FY) basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. 
Consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further 
appropriations over time. To the extent we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract or in advance of a contract 

10

award  or  contract  definitization,  we  are  at  risk  of  not  being  reimbursed  for  those  costs  unless  and  until  additional  funds  are 
obligated under the contract or the contract is successfully awarded, definitized and funded, which could adversely affect our 
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Failure to fund or the termination of significant programs or contracts by the U.S. Government could adversely affect our 
business and financial performance. DoD’s changes in funding priorities also could reduce opportunities in existing programs 
and in future programs or initiatives where we intend to compete and where we have made investments. While we would expect 
to  compete  and  be  well  positioned  as  the  incumbent  on  existing  programs,  we  may  not  be  successful  and,  even  if  we  are 
successful, the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels or result in lower margins. In addition, our ability to grow 
in key areas such as hypersonics programs, classified programs and next-generation franchise programs will be affected by the 
overall budget environment and whether development programs transition to production and the timing of such transition, all of 
which are dependent on U.S. Government authorization and funding.

The F-35 program comprises a material portion of our revenue and reductions or delays in funding for this program and 
risks related to performance, schedule, cost and requirements of the program could adversely affect our performance.

The F-35 program, which consists of multiple development, production and sustainment contracts, is our largest program 
and represented 26% of our total consolidated net sales in 2023. A decision by the U.S. Government, international partners, or 
FMS customer countries to cut spending on this program or reduce or delay planned orders would have an adverse impact on 
our  business  and  results  of  operations.  Given  the  size  and  complexity  of  the  F-35  program,  we  anticipate  that  there  will  be 
continual reviews related to aircraft performance, program and delivery schedule, cost, and requirements as part of the DoD, 
Congressional,  and  international  countries’  oversight  and  budgeting  processes.  Challenges  and  risks  associated  with  this 
program  include  supplier  performance,  software  development,  definitizing  and  receiving  funding  for  contracts  on  a  timely 
basis, execution of future flight tests and findings resulting from testing and operating the aircraft, the level of cost associated 
with life cycle operations, sustainment and potential contractual obligations, inflation-related cost pressures and the ability to 
improve  affordability.  See  also  the  “Status  of  the  F-35  Program”  in  Management  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the current program status and specific challenges and risks, including 
with respect to Technology Refresh 3 (TR-3) configuration development and deliveries.

We  also  may  not  be  successful  in  making  hardware  upgrades  and  other  modernization  capabilities  in  a  timely  manner, 
including as a result of dependencies on suppliers, which could increase costs and create schedule delays. Our ability to capture 
and retain future F-35 growth in development, production and sustainment is dependent on the success of our efforts to achieve 
F-35  sustainment  performance,  customer  affordability,  supply  chain  improvements,  continued  reliability  improvements  and 
other efficiencies, some of which are outside our control. See also the Risk Factor below captioned “We are heavily dependent 
on  suppliers  and  if  our  subcontractors  or  other  suppliers  or  teaming  agreement  or  joint  venture  partners  fail  to  perform  their 
obligations, our performance and ability to win future business could be adversely affected” for further discussion.

We are subject to extensive procurement laws and regulations, including those that enable the U.S. Government to terminate 
contracts for convenience. Our business and reputation could be adversely affected if we or those we do business with fail to 
comply with these laws and regulations.

We  must  comply  with  extensive  laws  and  regulations  relating  to  the  award,  administration  and  performance  of  U.S. 
Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose 
certain risks and costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations by us, our employees, others working on our 
behalf, a supplier or a joint venture partner could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the 
termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export 
products or perform services and civil or criminal investigations or proceedings. From time to time, the U.S. Government has 
proposed  contract  terms,  imposed  internal  policies,  or  taken  positions  that  represent  fundamental  changes  from  historical 
practices  or  that  we  believe  are  inconsistent  with  the  FAR  or  other  laws  and  regulations  and  that  could  adversely  affect  our 
business.  In  addition,  costs  to  comply  with  new  government  regulations  can  increase  our  costs,  reduce  our  margins  and 
adversely  affect  our  competitiveness.  Also,  a  portion  of  our  contracts  are  classified  by  the  U.S.  Government,  which  imposes 
security requirements that limit our ability to discuss our performance on these contracts, including any specific risks, disputes 
and claims.

Contract  Termination.  The  U.S.  Government  may  terminate  any  of  our  government  contracts  at  its  convenience  or  for 
default based on our performance, either  of  which  could adversely  affect our business and financial performance. Generally, 
prime contractors have similar termination rights under subcontracts related to government contracts. If a contract is terminated 
for convenience, we generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit 
on  those  costs.  However,  to  the  extent  insufficient  funds  have  been  appropriated  by  the  U.S.  Government  to  cover  our  costs 
upon a termination for convenience, the U.S. Government may assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding. If 
a contract is terminated for default, the U.S. Government could make claims to reduce our recovery or recoup its procurement 
costs and could assess other special penalties, exposing us to liability and adversely affecting our ability to compete for future 

11

contracts and orders. In addition, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, 
notwithstanding the fact that our performance and the quality of the products or services we delivered were consistent with our 
contractual obligations as a subcontractor.

Undefinitized  Contract  Action  (UCA).  When  operating  under  a  undefinitized  contract  action  (UCA),  which  is  when  we 
begin  performing  our  obligations  before  the  terms,  specifications  or  price  are  finally  agreed  to  between  the  parties,  the  U.S. 
Government has the right to unilaterally definitize contracts, which it has exercised in the past and which, absent a successful 
appeal,  obligates  us  to  perform  under  terms  and  conditions  imposed  by  the  U.S.  Government.  This  can  affect  our  ability  to 
negotiate mutually agreeable contract terms. If a contract is unilaterally imposed upon us, it may negatively affect our expected 
profit and cash flows on a program or impose burdensome terms.

Bid  Protests.  U.S  Government  procurement  laws  permit  legal  challenges,  referred  to  as  bid  protests,  to  the  terms  of  a 
contract  solicitation  or  the  award  of  a  contract.  We  may  encounter  bid  protests  from  unsuccessful  bidders  on  new  program 
awards seeking to overturn the award. Unsuccessful bidders also may protest with the goal of being awarded a subcontract for a 
portion  of  the  work  in  return  for  withdrawing  the  protest.  Bid  protests  can  result  in  significant  expenses  to  us,  contract 
modifications  or  even  loss  of  the  contract  award  and  the  resolution  can  extend  the  time  until  contract  activity  can  begin  and 
delay the recognition of sales and defer underlying cash flows and adversely affect our operating results. Our efforts to protest 
or challenge any bids for contracts that were not awarded to us also may be unsuccessful.

Competition and changing procurement policies could adversely affect our business and financial results.

We  operate  in  a  highly  competitive  industry  and  our  competitors  may  have  more  extensive  or  more  specialized, 
engineering,  technical,  marketing  and  servicing  capabilities  than  we  do  in  certain  areas.  Our  competitors  may  develop  new 
technologies,  products  or  services  that  could  replace  our  current  offerings.  Additionally,  if  competitors  can  offer  lower  cost 
services and products, or provide services or products more quickly, at equivalent or in some cases even reduced capabilities, 
we may lose new business opportunities or contract recompetes, which could adversely affect our future results. We are facing 
increased competition from startups and non-traditional defense contractors, which may have a lower cost structure or be able to 
move quickly in addition to being favored, in certain cases, by procurement policy. Furthermore, acquisitions in our industry, 
including  vertical  integration,  also  could  result  in  increased  competition  or  limit  our  access  to  certain  suppliers  without 
appropriate remedies to protect our interests.

A substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government increasingly has relied 
on competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity and other multi-award contracts, which 
have the potential to create pricing pressure and to increase our costs by requiring us to submit multiple bids and proposals. 
Multi-award contracts require us to make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. Additionally, procurements 
that  do  not  evaluate  whether  the  cost  assumptions  in  the  bids  are  realistic  can  lead  to  bidders  taking  aggressive  pricing 
positions,  which  could  result  in  the  winner  realizing  a  loss  upon  contract  award  or  an  increased  risk  of  lower  margins  or 
realizing a loss over the term of the contract. Competitors may be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing 
for  contracts  than  we  are.  The  U.S.  Government  also  may  not  award  us  large  competitive  contracts  that  we  otherwise  might 
have won in an effort to maintain a broad industrial base. 

U.S. Government procurement policies and procedures and the application thereof are regularly changing and such changes 
could  adversely  affect  our  profitability  or  the  ability  to  win  new  business.  For  example,  an  increase  in  the  use  of  contract 
structures that shift risk to the contractor, such as fixed-price development contracts and incentive-based fee arrangements, or 
the U.S Government using different award fee criteria than historically used (such as the evaluation of environmental factors) 
could adversely affect our profit rates or make it more difficult to win new contracts. The DoD is increasingly pursuing rapid 
acquisition pathways and procedures for new technologies, including through so called “other transaction authority” agreements 
(OTAs). OTAs are exempt from many traditional procurement laws, including the FAR, and an OTA award may be subject, in 
certain cases, to the condition that a significant portion of the work under the OTA is performed by a non-traditional defense 
contractor or that a portion of the cost of the protype project is funded by non-governmental sources. Changes in regulations or 
interpretations of what are allowable costs under our government contracts could adversely impact our profitability and changes 
in  contract  financing  policy  for  fixed-price  contracts,  such  as  changes  in  performance  and  progress  payments  policies,  could 
significantly affect the timing of our cash flows.

Our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, and our ability 
to control costs.

Our profitability and cash flow may vary materially depending on the types of government contracts undertaken, the nature 
of products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement 
of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under 
award and incentive-fee contracts. Failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced 
fees or losses and may adversely affect our financial performance.

12

Contract types primarily include fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts. Cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the 
payment of allowable costs incurred during performance of the contract plus a fee up to a ceiling based on the amount that has 
been funded. Cost, schedule or technical performance issues with respect to cost-reimbursable contracts could result in reduced 
fees, lower profit rates, or program cancellation. Fixed-price contracts are predominantly either firm fixed-price (FFP) contracts 
or fixed-price incentive (FPI) contracts. Under FFP contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur 
and therefore we carry the burden of any cost overruns. Under FPI contracts the U.S. Government is responsible for our costs 
up to a negotiated ceiling price and we generally share, based on a negotiated sharing formula, savings from cost underruns and 
expenses, up to the negotiated ceiling price, from cost overruns. We bear the risk for all cost overruns that exceed the negotiated 
ceiling price. Due to the fixed-price nature of the contracts, if our actual costs exceed our estimates, our margins and profits are 
reduced  and  we  could  incur  a  reach-forward  loss.  A  reach-forward  loss  is  when  estimates  of  total  costs  to  be  incurred  on  a 
contract exceed total estimates of the transaction price. When this occurs, a provision for the entire loss is determined at the 
contract level and is recorded in the period in which the loss is evident.

Under  both  fixed-price  and  cost-reimbursable  contracts,  if  we  are  unable  to  control  costs,  our  operating  results  could  be 
adversely  affected.  Costs  to  complete  a  contract  may  increase  for  many  reasons,  including  technical  and  manufacturing 
challenges, schedule delays, workforce-related issues, inaccurate initial contract cost estimates, the timeliness and availability 
of materials from suppliers, internal and subcontractor performance or product quality issues, inability to meet cost reduction 
initiatives  or  achieve  efficiencies  from  digital  transformation,  changing  laws  or  regulations,  inflation  and  natural  disasters. 
Certain  contracts  may  impose  other  risks,  such  as  forfeiting  fees,  paying  penalties,  or  providing  replacement  systems  in  the 
event of performance failure.

Contracts for development programs include complex design and technical requirements and are often contracted on a cost-
reimbursable basis, however, some of our existing development programs are contracted on a fixed-price basis. In addition, we 
have certain contracts where we bid upfront on cost-reimbursable development work and the follow-on fixed-price production 
options  in  one  submission.  We  expect  we  also  will  bid  on  similar  programs  in  the  future.  Fixed-price  development  work  or 
fixed-price  production  options,  especially  on  competitively  bid  programs,  is  inherently  riskier  than  cost-reimbursable  work 
because  the  revenue  is  fixed,  while  the  estimates  of  costs  required  to  complete  these  contracts  are  subject  to  significant 
variability due to the nature of development programs. The technical complexity coupled with the fixed-price contract structure 
of  certain  of  our  ongoing  development  programs  or  new  programs  increases  the  risk  that  our  costs  will  be  greater  than 
anticipated, resulting in reduced margins, operating profit, or reach-forward losses during the period of contract performance or 
upon  contract  award,  all  of  which  could  be  significant  to  our  operating  results,  cash  flows,  or  financial  condition.  Bidding 
upfront on fixed-price production options increases the risk that we may experience lower margins than expected, or a loss, on 
the production options because we must estimate the cost of producing a product before it has been developed. These risks may 
cause  us  not  to  bid  on  certain  future  programs,  which  could  adversely  affect  our  future  growth  prospects  and  financial 
performance. See Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further details about losses incurred on certain programs, including fixed-price development programs.

Contracts for the transition from development to production (e.g., low rate initial production (LRIP) contracts) also create 
performance and financial risks to our business because of the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production 
and test line while concurrently validating final design and managing change in requirements or capabilities requested by the 
customer.

Many  of  our  contracts  include  multiple  option  years  exercisable  at  the  customer’s  discretion,  which  carries  risk.  The 
customer may decline to exercise an option, or the customer may exercise an option on a contract for which we expect to incur 
a loss or perform at a low margin, either of which could adversely affect our financial results.

We are routinely subject to audit by our customers on government contracts and the results of those audits could have an 
adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. 

U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Contract Management Agency and 
various  agency  Inspectors  General,  routinely  audit  and  investigate  government  contractors.  These  agencies  review  a 
contractor’s compliance with applicable laws, regulations and contract terms, regarding, among other things, contract pricing, 
contract  performance,  cost  structure  and  business  systems.  U.S.  Government  audits  and  investigations  often  take  years  to 
complete, and many result in no adverse action against us. Like many U.S. Government contractors, we have received audit and 
investigative  reports  recommending  the  reduction  of  certain  contract  prices  or  that  certain  payments  be  repaid,  delayed,  or 
withheld,  and  may  involve  substantial  amounts.  Similarly,  like  other  U.S.  Government  contractors,  audits  and  investigations 
also  occur  related  to  cost  reimbursements  that  are  based  upon  our  final  allowable  incurred  costs  for  each  year.  We  have 
unaudited or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which limits our ability to issue final billings on contracts for 
which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring or can result in delays in final billings and our ability to close out a 
contract.

13

If  an  audit  or  investigation  uncovers  improper  or  illegal  activities,  we  may  be  subject  to  civil  or  criminal  penalties  and 
administrative  sanctions,  including  reductions  of  the  value  of  contracts,  contract  modifications  or  terminations,  forfeiture  of 
profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines or suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. Government. 
Suspension  or  debarment  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  us  because  of  our  dependence  on  contracts  with  the  U.S. 
Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Similar 
government oversight and risks to our business and reputation exist in most other countries where we conduct business.

Other Risks Related to our Operations

We are heavily dependent on suppliers and if our subcontractors or other suppliers or teaming agreement or joint venture 
partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and ability to win future business could be adversely affected.

We are the prime contractor on most of our contracts and rely on other companies to provide materials, major components 
and  products,  and  to  perform  a  portion  of  the  services  that  are  provided  to  our  customers  under  the  terms  of  most  of  our 
contracts. These arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, joint ventures, or supply agreements with other 
companies  on  which  we  rely  (contracting  parties)  and,  in  many  cases,  our  contracting  parties  in  turn  rely  on  lower-tier 
subcontractors.  We  sometimes  have  disputes  with  our  contracting  parties,  including  disputes  regarding  the  cost,  quality  and 
timeliness of work performed, workshares, customer concerns about the other party’s performance, issues related to lower-tier 
subcontractor performance, our failure to issue or extend task orders, or our hiring the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate 
or joint venture partner or vice versa. We also could be adversely affected by actions or issues experienced by our contracting 
parties that are outside of our control, such as misconduct and reputational issues involving our contracting parties, which could 
subject us to liability or adversely affect our ability to compete for contract awards. The financial stability and viability of our 
contracting  parties  or  lower-tier  subcontractors  have  and  in  the  future  could  adversely  affect  their  ability  to  meet  their 
performance obligation.

A  failure  by  one  or  more  of  our  contracting  parties  to  provide  the  agreed-upon  materials,  components  or  products,  or 
perform  the  agreed-upon  services,  on  a  timely  basis,  according  to  specifications,  including  compliance  with  regulatory 
requirements  we  flow  down  from  our  prime  contracts,  or  at  all,  has  and  may  adversely  affect  our  ability  to  perform  our 
obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. Contracting party performance deficiencies may result 
in additional costs or delays in product deliveries and affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our 
contract  for  default  or  convenience.  A  default  termination  could  expose  us  to  liability  and  affect  our  ability  to  compete  for 
future  contracts  and  orders.  A  failure  by  our  contracting  parties  to  meet  affordability  targets  could  negatively  affect  our 
profitability, result in contract losses and affect our ability to win new business.

Additionally, we are affected by government procurement restrictions and issues affecting industry supply chains broadly. 
For example, U.S. Government statutes and regulations impose restrictions in the sourcing of items from specified countries. 
We  seek  to  manage  supply  risk  through  long-term  contracts,  identifying  domestic  or  other  U.S.  allied  alternative  sources  of 
items  and  maintaining  an  acceptable  level  of  our  key  materials  in  inventories.  Advanced  microelectronics,  including 
semiconductors,  underpin  many  of  our  current  and  future  critical  technologies  and  platforms,  and  global  shortages  of  these 
products  due  to  increased  demand  or  other  supply  chain  challenges  could  result  in  increased  procurement  lead  times  and 
increased costs and potential shortages, which could affect our performance. We also must comply with specific procurement 
requirements that can limit the number of eligible suppliers and a significant number of the components or supplies used are 
currently single or sole sourced. Because the identification and qualification of new or additional suppliers can take an extended 
period of time, issues with suppliers or trade actions that limit our ability to use certain suppliers, especially when single or sole 
sourced, can have an adverse impact on our business. Complying with U.S. Government contracting regulations that limit the 
source  or  manufacture  of  suppliers  and  impose  stringent  cybersecurity  regulations  also  may  create  challenges  for  our  supply 
chain and increase costs.

We remain heavily dependent on our supply chain for sourcing contractually compliant components, which is outside of 
our  direct  control  and  is  multi-tiered.  The  future  occurrence  of  non-compliant  components  in  our  programs  could  cause 
suspensions in product deliveries, remediation work on installed components, contract price adjustments and alternate supply 
sourcing, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies, products and services and efficiently produce and 
deliver existing products. 

Many of the products and services we provide are highly engineered and involve sophisticated technologies with related 
complex  manufacturing  and  systems  integration  processes.  Our  customers’  requirements  change  and  evolve  regularly. 
Accordingly,  our  future  performance  depends,  in  part,  on  our  ability  to  adapt  to  changing  customer  needs  rapidly,  identify 
emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture innovative products and services efficiently and bring those offerings 
to  market  quickly  at  cost-effective  prices.  This  includes  efforts  to  provide  mission  solutions  that  integrate  capabilities  and 
resources across all forces and domains, which we refer to as joint all domain operations, and to implement emerging digital 
and network technologies and capabilities. Artificial intelligence technologies have rapidly developed and our business may be 

14

adversely  affected  if  we  cannot  successfully  integrate  the  technology  into  our  internal  business  processes  and  product  and 
service offerings in a timely, cost-effective, compliant and responsible manner. To advance our innovation and position us to 
meet our customers’ requirements, we make investments in emerging technologies that we believe are needed to keep pace with 
rapid industry innovation and seek to collaborate with commercial entities that we believe have complementary technologies to 
ours.  These  commercial  entities  may  not  be  accustomed  to  government  contracting  and  may  be  unwilling  to  agree  to  the 
government’s customary terms, including with respect to intellectual property, liability and indemnification term, which may 
prevent or lessen the benefit of collaboration. We may not be successful in identifying or developing emerging technologies and 
may spend significant resources on projects that ultimately are unsuccessful or yield a low return on the amount invested.

Our  future  success  in  delivering  innovative  and  affordable  solutions  to  our  customers  relies,  in  part,  on  our  multi-year 
business  transformation  initiative  that  seeks  to  significantly  enhance  our  digital  infrastructure  to  increase  efficiencies  and 
collaboration  throughout  our  business  while  reducing  costs.  This  digital  transformation  effort  requires  substantial  investment 
and if we are unable to successfully implement the strategy or do so in a timely manner, our results of operations and future 
competitiveness may be adversely affected.

If  we  fail  in  our  development  projects  or  if  our  new  products  or  technologies  fail  to  achieve  customer  acceptance  or 
competitors develop more capable technologies or offerings, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining new contracts or winning all 
or  a  portion  of  next  generation  programs,  including  in  key  areas  such  as  hypersonics  and  classified  work,  and  this  could 
adversely affect our future performance and financial results.

Geopolitical, macroeconomic and public health events and conditions could adversely affect our business, operating results, 
financial condition and cash flows.

Geopolitical. Our business is highly sensitive to geopolitical and security issues, including foreign policy actions taken by 
governments such, as tariffs, sanctions, embargoes, export and import controls and other trade restrictions, which can affect the 
demand for our products and services, the ability to sell our products and services, and disrupt our supply chain, all of which 
could adversely affect our business. 

Global  conflicts,  including  Russia’s  invasion  of  Ukraine,  have  significantly  elevated  global  geopolitical  tensions  and 
security  concerns.  The  conflict  has  resulted  in  increased  demand  for  some  of  our  products  and  services;  however,  if  we  are 
unable  to  increase  production  to  meet  demand  on  the  timeframe  expected  by  potential  customers,  whether  it  be  from  supply 
constraints, government funding or otherwise, then we may lose sales opportunities as they seek alternatives, even less capable 
ones,  that  may  be  able  to  be  delivered  more  quickly.  In  addition,  the  U.S.  Government  and  other  nations  have  implemented 
broad  economic  sanctions  and  export  controls  targeting  Russia,  which,  combined  with  the  Ukraine  conflict,  has  indirectly 
disrupted  the  global  supply  chain  and  increased  pressures  on  certain  resources.  The  Ukraine  conflict  also  has  increased  the 
threat of malicious cyber activity from nation states and other actors.

China’s  Ministry  of  Commerce  announced  in  2023  that  it  had  added  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  to  its  “unreliable 
entities list”  in  connection  with  certain foreign  military sales by  the  U.S. Government to  Taiwan involving our  products and 
services, and that it would impose certain sanctions against us, including a fine equal to twice the value of the arms that we had 
sold  to  Taiwan  since  September  2020.  In  addition,  China  prohibited  our  CEO,  COO  and  CFO  from  traveling  or  working  in 
China.  We  will  continue  to  follow  official  U.S.  Government  guidance  as  it  relates  to  sales  to  Taiwan  and  do  not  currently 
expect a material impact to our business from these actions. In 2023, China also implemented broad-based export restrictions on 
certain minerals used in the production, among other things, of semiconductors and missile systems. If China were to further 
restrict  the  export  of  certain  materials,  take  further  actions  to  enforce  the  existing  sanctions  on  us  or  impose  additional 
sanctions, or impose sanctions on our suppliers, teammates or partners, our business could be adversely affected.

International  sales  also  may  be  adversely  affected  by  actions  taken  by  the  U.S.  Government  in  the  exercise  of  foreign 
policy, Congressional oversight or the financing of particular programs, including the prevention or imposition of conditions 
upon the sale and delivery of our products or the transfer of sensitive technology, the imposition of sanctions, or Congressional 
action to restrict sales of our products. For example, the U.S. Government has imposed certain sanctions on Türkish entities and 
persons, which has affected our ability to obtain certain U.S. export permits or authorizations necessary to perform under our 
existing  contracts  supporting  the  Türkish  Utility  Helicopter  Program  (TUHP),  our  work  with  Türkish  industry  and  our 
opportunity for sales in Türkiye generally. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” included in our 
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  more  information  on  TUHP.  Our  inability  to  perform  under  contracts  with 
international  customers  as  a  result  of  actions  taken  by  the  U.S.  Government  has  resulted  and  may  in  the  future  result  in  our 
inability  to  recover  our  costs  and  reach  forward  losses,  claims  and  contract  terminations  by  these  customers  and  suppliers, 
which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.

Macroeconomic.  Heightened  levels  of  inflation  and  the  potential  worsening  of  macro-economic  conditions,  including 
slower growth or recession, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, tighter credit, higher interest rates and currency fluctuations, 
present  a  risk  for  us,  our  suppliers  and  the  stability  of  the  broader  defense  industrial  base.  If  we  are  unable  to  successfully 

15

mitigate  the  impact  of  inflation,  our  profits,  margins  and  cash  flows,  particularly  for  existing  fixed-price  contracts,  may  be 
adversely affected. Although we believe defense spending is more resilient to adverse macro-economic conditions than many 
other industrial sectors, our suppliers and other partners, many of which are more exposed to commercial markets or have fewer 
resources, may be adversely impacted to a more significant degree than we are by an economic downturn, which could affect 
their performance and adversely impact our operations. In addition, macroeconomic conditions could cause budgetary pressures 
for our government customers resulting in reductions or delays in spending, which could adversely impact our business. Higher 
interest  rates  increase  the  borrowing  costs  on  new  debt  and  could  affect  the  fair  value  of  our  investments.  Interest  rates  also 
impact  our  pension.  For  example,  higher  interest  rates  generally  reduce  the  measure  of  our  gross  pension  obligations  while 
lower interest rates increase it. 

Public  health.  We  face  a  wide  variety  of  risks  related  to  public  health  crises,  epidemics,  pandemics  or  similar  events, 
including  COVID-19.  If  a  new  health  epidemic  or  outbreak  were  to  occur,  we  could  experience  broad  and  varied  impacts 
similar to the impact of COVID-19, including adverse impacts to our workforce and supply chain, inflationary pressures and 
increased costs, schedule or production delays, market volatility and other financial impacts. If any of these were to occur, our 
future results and performance could be adversely impacted.

International sales may pose different economic, regulatory, competition and other risks.

International  sales  present  risks  that  are  different  and  potentially  greater  than  those  encountered  in  our  U.S.  business.  In 
2023,  26%  of  our  total  net  sales  were  from  international  customers.  International  sales  are  subject  to  numerous  political  and 
economic  factors,  including  changes  in  foreign  national  priorities,  foreign  government  budgets,  global  economic  conditions, 
and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the possibility of trade sanctions and other government actions, regulatory 
requirements, significant competition, taxation, and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S. Sales of military 
products and services and any associated industrial development (offset) agreements are subject to U.S. export regulations and 
foreign policy, and there could be significant delays or other issues in reaching definitive agreements for announced programs. 
See the Risk Factor “Geopolitical, macroeconomic and public health events and conditions could adversely affect our business, 
operating  results,  financial  condition  and  cash  flows.”  Competition  for  international  sales  is  intense,  including  from 
international manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies 
and other assistance for their products and services.

Our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government and 
by direct commercial sales (DCS) to international customers. FMS contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to the FAR 
and the DFARS. Because the U.S. Government functions as an intermediary in FMS sales, we are reliant on the capacity and 
speed  of  the  DoD’s  administration  of  requests  from  non-U.S.  countries  to  convert  requests  to  sales.  In  contrast,  DCS 
transactions  represent  sales  directly  to  international  customers  and  are  subject  to  U.S.  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations, 
including product testing, import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, investments, taxation, repatriation of earnings, 
exchange  controls,  the  Foreign  Corrupt  Practices  Act  and  other  anti-corruption  laws  and  regulations,  and  the  anti-boycott 
provisions of the U.S. Export Control Reform Act of 2018. While we have extensive policies in place to comply with such laws 
and regulations, failure by us, our employees or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could 
result  in  administrative,  civil,  or  criminal  liabilities,  including  suspension,  debarment  from  bidding  for  or  performing 
government contracts, or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We frequently 
team with international subcontractors and suppliers who also are exposed to similar risks.

We believe DCS transactions present a higher level of potential risks because they involve direct commercial relationships 
with parties with which we typically have less familiarity. Additionally, international procurement and local country rules and 
regulations, contract laws and judicial systems differ from those in the U.S. and, in some cases, may be less predictable than 
those  in  the  U.S.,  which  could  impair  our  ability  to  enforce  contracts  and  increase  the  risk  of  adverse  or  unpredictable 
outcomes, including the possibility that certain matters that would be considered civil matters in the U.S. are treated as criminal 
matters in other countries. 

In  conjunction  with  defense  procurements,  some  international  customers  require  contractors  to  comply  with  industrial 
cooperation  regulations,  including  entering  into  industrial  participation,  industrial  development  or  localization  agreements, 
sometimes referred to as offset agreements (also known as offset contracts), as a condition to obtaining orders for our products 
and  services.  These  offset  agreements  generally  extend  over  several  years  and  obligate  the  contractor  to  perform  certain 
commitments, which may include in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, consulting support 
to  in-country  projects,  investments  in  joint  ventures  and  financial  support  projects,  and  preference  for  local  suppliers  or 
subcontractors. The customer’s expectations in respect of the scope of offset commitments can be substantial, including high-
value content, and may exceed existing local technical capability. Failure to meet these commitments, which can be subjective 
and outside of our control, may result in significant penalties, and could lead to a reduction in sales to a country. Furthermore, 
some of our existing offset agreements are dependent upon the successful operation of joint ventures that we do not control and 
involve products and services that are outside of our core business, which may increase the risk of breaching our obligations, 

16

exposing us to compliance risks of the joint venture, and impairing our ability to recover our investment. For more information 
on our industrial development obligations, including the notional value of our remaining industrial development obligations and 
potential penalties for non-compliance, see “Contractual Commitments” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations.

We may be unable to benefit fully from or adequately protect our intellectual property rights or use third-party intellectual 
property, which could negatively affect our business.

We own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks related to the products and services we provide. 
In addition to owning a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, we develop and own other intellectual property, including 
copyrights, trade secrets and research, development and engineering know-how, which contribute significantly to our business. 
We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. The FAR and DFARS provide that the U.S. Government obtains 
certain rights in intellectual property, including patents, developed by us and our subcontractors and suppliers in performance of 
government contracts or with government funding. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others, including competitors, to 
use  such  intellectual  property.  Non-U.S.  governments  also  may  have  certain  rights  in  patents  and  other  intellectual  property 
developed in performance of our contracts with these entities. The U.S. Government is pursuing aggressive positions regarding 
the types of intellectual property to which government use rights apply and when it is appropriate for the government to insist 
on broad use rights. The DoD is also implementing an overarching intellectual property acquisition policy that will require a 
greater  focus  and  planning  as  to  intellectual  property  rights  for  its  programs,  and  we  have  no  assurance  as  to  the  potential 
impacts of this policy or any associated regulatory changes on future acquisitions. The DoD’s efforts could affect our ability to 
protect  and  exploit  our  intellectual  property  and  to  leverage  supplier  intellectual  property,  for  example,  if  we  are  unable  to 
obtain necessary licenses from our suppliers to meet government requirements. Additionally, third parties may assert that our 
products or services infringe their intellectual property rights, which could result in costly and time-consuming disputes, subject 
us to damages and injunctions and adversely affect our ability to compete and perform on certain contracts.

Our business and financial performance depends on us identifying, attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce.

Our  performance  is  dependent  upon  us  identifying,  attracting,  developing,  motivating  and  retaining  a  highly  skilled 
workforce  with  the  requisite  skills  in  multiple  areas  including:  engineering,  science,  manufacturing,  information  technology, 
cybersecurity,  business  development  and  strategy  and  management.  Due  to  the  national  security  nature  of  our  work,  our 
performance is also dependent upon personnel who hold security clearances and receive substantial training to work on certain 
programs or tasks and can be difficult to replace on a timely basis if we experience unplanned attrition. The market for highly 
skilled  workers  and  leaders  in  our  industry  as  well  as  the  market  for  individuals  holding  high-level  security  clearances  is 
extremely  competitive  and  not  confined  to  our  industry.  For  example,  we  compete  with  commercial  technology  companies 
outside  of  the  aerospace  and  defense  industry  for  qualified  technical,  cyber  and  scientific  positions,  which  may  not  face  the 
same type of cost pressures as a government contractor and which may be able to offer more flexible work arrangements given 
that  certain  of  our  employees  must  perform  the  majority  of  their  work  in  a  secure  facility  because  of  the  need  to  access 
classified  information.  If  we  cannot  adequately  attract  and  retain  personnel  with  the  requisite  skills  or  clearances  in  this 
competitive market, our performance and future prospects may be adversely affected. 

Workforce  dynamics  are  constantly  evolving.  If  we  do  not  manage  changing  workforce  dynamics  effectively,  it  could 
adversely  affect  our  culture,  reputation  and  operational  flexibility.  Beginning  with  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  a  significant 
portion of our workforce began working remotely and we expect a significant portion to continue working remotely under our 
hybrid  workforce  model.  If  we  are  unable  to  effectively  adapt  to  this  hybrid  work  environment  long  term,  then  we  may 
experience a less cohesive workforce, increased attrition, reduced program performance and less innovation.

It is also critical that we develop and train employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the short and 
long-term transfer of critical knowledge and skills, including leadership development and succession planning throughout our 
business. While we have processes in place for management transition and the transfer of knowledge and skills, the loss of key 
personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately train other personnel, hire new personnel or transfer knowledge and skills, 
could significantly impact our ability to perform under our contracts and execute on new or growing programs.

Additionally,  approximately  19%  of  our  workforce  is  comprised  of  employees  that  are  covered  by  collective  bargaining 
agreements  with  various  unions.  If  we  encounter  difficulties  with  renegotiations  or  renewals  of  collective  bargaining 
arrangements  or  are  unsuccessful  in  those  efforts,  we  could  incur  additional  costs  and  experience  work  stoppages.  Union 
actions at suppliers also can affect us. Any delays or work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to perform under our 
contracts, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

17

Cyber-attacks and other security threats and disruptions could have a material adverse affect on our business.

As an aerospace and defense company, we face a multitude of security threats, including cybersecurity threats ranging from 
attacks common to most industries, such as ransomware and denial-of-service, to attacks from more advanced and persistent, 
highly  organized  adversaries,  including  nation  state  actors,  which  target  the  defense  industrial  base  and  other  critical 
infrastructure sectors. The sophistication of the threats continue to evolve and grow, including the risk associated with the use 
of  emerging  technologies,  such  as  artificial  intelligence  and  quantum  computing,  for  nefarious  purposes.  In  addition  to 
cybersecurity  threats,  we  face  threats  to  the  security  of  our  facilities  and  employees  from  terrorist  acts,  sabotage  or  other 
disruptions, any of which could adversely affect our business. The improper conduct of our employees or others working on 
behalf  of  us  who  have  access  to  export  controlled,  classified  or  other  sensitive  information  could  also  adversely  affect  our 
business  and  reputation.  Our  customers  (including  sites  that  we  operate  and  manage  for  our  customers),  suppliers, 
subcontractors and joint venture partners, experience similar security threats.

If we are unable to protect sensitive information, including complying with evolving information security, data protection 
and privacy regulations, our customers or governmental authorities could investigate the adequacy of our threat mitigation and 
detection processes and procedures; and could bring actions against us for noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Moreover,  depending  on  the  severity  of  an  incident,  our  customers’  data,  our  employees’  data,  our  intellectual  property 
(including  trade  secrets  and  research,  development  and  engineering  know-how),  and  other  third-party  data  (such  as 
subcontractors, suppliers and vendors) could be compromised, which could adversely affect our business. Products and services 
we provide to customers also carry cybersecurity risks, including risks that they could be breached or fail to detect, prevent or 
combat attacks, which could result in losses to our customers and claims against us, and could harm our relationships with our 
customers and financial results. 

Given the persistence, sophistication, volume and novelty of threats we face, we may not be successful in preventing or 
mitigating an attack that could have a material adverse effect on us and the costs related to cyber or other security threats or 
disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. The national security aspects of our business and much of 
the  data  we  protect  increase  and  create  different  risks  relative  to  other  industries.  National  security  considerations  may  also 
preclude us from publicly disclosing a cybersecurity incident.

Our customers, suppliers,  subcontractors,  joint  venture partners and acquired entities face  similar security threats and an 
incident at one of these entities could adversely impact our business. These entities are typically outside our control and may 
have  access  to  our  information  with  varying  levels  of  security  and  cybersecurity  resources,  expertise,  safeguards  and 
capabilities. Their relationships with government contractors, including us, may increase the risk that they are targeted by the 
same threats we face, however, they may not be as prepared for such threats. Adversaries actively seek to exploit security and 
cybersecurity weaknesses in our supply chain. Breaches in our multi-tiered supply chain, which is comprised of thousands of 
direct and indirect suppliers, has and could in the future compromise our data and adversely affect customer deliverables. We 
also  must  rely  on  our  supply  chain  for  adequately  detecting  and  reporting  cyber  incidents,  which  could  affect  our  ability  to 
report or respond to cybersecurity incidents effectively or in a timely manner.

For information on our cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance, see Item 1C. - Cybersecurity.

If  we  fail  to  successfully  complete  or  manage  acquisitions,  divestitures,  equity  investments  and  other  transactions  or  if 
acquired entities or equity investments fail to perform as expected, our financial results, business and future prospects could 
be harmed.

In  pursuing  our  business  strategy,  we  routinely  conduct  discussions,  evaluate  companies,  and  enter  into  agreements 
regarding possible acquisitions, joint ventures, other investments and divestitures. We seek to identify acquisition or investment 
opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services or customer base, at reasonable valuations. To 
be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies or underlying risks, 
some of which are difficult to discover or assess prior to consummation of an acquisition or investment; negotiate transaction 
terms; complete and close complex transactions; integrate acquired companies and employees; and realize anticipated operating 
synergies efficiently and effectively. U.S. regulators have increased their scrutiny of mergers and acquisitions in recent years, 
which could continue to limit our ability to execute certain transactions that we might otherwise pursue.

Acquisition, divestiture, joint venture and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and have 
the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. Unidentified or identified but uncertain liabilities that are not 
covered by indemnification or other coverage could adversely affect our future financial results. This is particularly the case in 
respect  of  successor  liability  under  procurement  laws  and  regulations  such  as  the  False  Claims  Act  or  the  Truthful  Cost  or 
Pricing Data Act (formerly the Truth in Negotiations Act), anti-corruption, environmental, tax, import-export and technology 
transfer laws, which provide for civil and criminal penalties and the potential for debarment. We also may incur unanticipated 

18

costs  or  expenses,  including  post-closing  asset  impairment  charges,  expenses  associated  with  eliminating  duplicate  facilities, 
employee retention, transaction-related or other litigation, and other liabilities. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our 
business and results of operations.

Joint  ventures  and  other  noncontrolling  investments  operate  under  shared  control  with  other  parties.  These  investments 
typically  face  many  of  the  same  risks  and  uncertainties  as  we  do,  but  may  expose  us  to  additional  risks  not  present  if  we 
retained full control. A joint venture partner may have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with ours and 
we  may  be  unable  to  prevent  strategic  decisions  that  may  adversely  affect  our  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of 
operations. We also could be adversely affected by, or liable for, actions taken by these joint ventures that we do not control, 
including violations of anti-corruption, import and export, taxation and anti-boycott laws.

Depending on our rights and percentage of ownership, we may consolidate the financial results of such entities or account 
for  our  interests  under  the  equity  method.  Under  the  equity  method  of  accounting  for  nonconsolidated  ventures  and 
investments,  we  recognize  our  share  of  the  operating  profit  or  loss  of  these  joint  ventures  in  our  results  of  operations.  Our 
operating results are affected by the conduct and performance of businesses over which we do not exercise control and, as a 
result, we may not be successful in achieving the growth or other intended benefits of strategic investments.

We make investments in early-stage companies that we believe are advancing or developing new technologies applicable to 
our  businesses.  These  investments  are  generally  illiquid  at  the  time  of  investment  and  typically  we  hold  a  non-controlling 
interest. We have and expect to continue to recognize gains or losses attributable to adjustments of the investments’ fair value, 
including impairments up to and including the full value of the investment, which events are generally outside of our control 
such as the success or failure of the company and market volatility.

Risks Related to Significant Contingencies, Uncertainties and Estimates, including Pension, Taxes, Environmental and 
Litigation Costs

Pension  funding  requirements  and  costs  are  dependent  on  return  on  pension  assets  and  other  economic  and  actuarial 
assumptions  which  if  changed  may  cause  our  future  earnings  and  cash  flow  to  fluctuate  significantly  and  affect  the 
affordability of our products and services.

Many of our employees and retirees participate in defined benefit pension plans, retiree medical and life insurance plans, 
and other postemployment plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). The impact of these plans on our earnings may be 
volatile in that the amount of expense or income we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from 
year to year because the calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates and 
rates of return on plan assets, other actuarial assumptions, including participant longevity (also known as mortality), as well as 
the timing of cash funding. Changes in these factors, including actual returns on plan assets, may also affect our plan funding, 
cash flows and stockholders’ equity. We could be required to make pension contributions earlier and/or in excess than planned 
if our return on pension assets is less than our assumptions, which would reduce our free cash flow. 

With  regard  to  cash  flow,  we  have  made  substantial  cash  contributions  to  our  plans  as  required  by  the  Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, and expect to make future contributions as required or when 
deemed prudent. We generally can recover a significant portion of these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on 
our U.S. Government contracts, including FMS. However, there is a lag between the time when we contribute cash to our plans 
under  pension  funding  rules  and  when  we  recover  pension  costs  under  U.S.  Government  Cost  Accounting  Standards  (CAS), 
which  can  affect  the  timing  of  our  cash  flows.  Our  business  segments’  results  of  operations  include  pension  expense  as 
calculated under CAS while our consolidated financial statements must present pension income or expense in accordance with 
U.S.  GAAP  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (FAS);  differences  in  these  accounting  rules  may  result  in  significant  period 
adjustments referred to as our FAS/CAS pension adjustments.

In recent years, we have taken actions intended to mitigate the risk related to our defined benefit pension plans including 
pension risk transfer transactions whereby we purchase group annuity contracts (GACs) from insurance companies using assets 
from the pension trust. We expect to continue to evaluate such transactions in the future. Although under the majority of the 
GACs we have purchased we are relieved of all responsibility for the associated pension obligations, we have purchased and 
may in the future purchase GACs whereby the insurance company reimburses the pension plans but we remain responsible for 
paying benefits under the plans to covered retirees and beneficiaries and are subject to the risk that the insurance company will 
default  on  its  obligations  to  reimburse  the  pension  trusts.  While  we  believe  pension  risk  transfer  transactions  are  beneficial; 
future  transactions,  depending  on  their  size,  could  result  in  us  making  additional  contributions  to  the  pension  trust  and/or 
require us to recognize noncash settlement charges in earnings in the applicable reporting period.

19

For more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders’ equity, 
see “Critical Accounting Policies - Postretirement Benefit Plans” in the MD&A and “Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit Plans” 
included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our estimates and projections may prove to be inaccurate and certain of our assets may be at risk of future impairment.

The accounting  for  some  of our most  significant activities is based on judgments and  estimates, which are complex and 
subject to many variables. For example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost method requires 
that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding future schedule, cost, technical and performance issues for thousands of 
contracts,  many  of  which  are  long-term  in  nature.  This  process  can  be  especially  difficult  when  estimating  costs  for 
development  programs  because  of  the  inherent  uncertainty  in  developing  a  new  product  or  technology.  Because  of  the 
significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for our contracts, materially different amounts or 
revenue  and  operating  profit  could  be  recorded  if  we  used  different  assumptions  or  if  the  underlying  circumstances  were  to 
change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future financial condition and 
results  of  operations.  Additionally,  we  initially  allocate  the  purchase  price  of  acquired  businesses  based  on  a  preliminary 
assessment of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For significant acquisitions we may use a 
one-year measurement period to analyze and assess several factors used in establishing the asset and liability fair values as of 
the acquisition date which could result in adjustments to asset and liability balances.

We  have  $10.8  billion  of  goodwill  assets  recorded  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheet  as  of  December  31,  2023  from 
previous  acquisitions,  which  represents  approximately  21%  of  our  total  assets.  These  goodwill  assets  are  subject  to  annual 
impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstances that 
indicate goodwill may be impaired. If we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a 
reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the reporting unit’s related goodwill assets. 

Actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in the MD&A 
and  Results  of  Operations  and  “Note  1  –  Organization  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies”  included  in  our  Notes  to 
Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates.

Changes in tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial results.

Changes  in  U.S.  (federal  or  state)  or  foreign  tax  laws  and  regulations,  or  their  interpretation  and  application,  including 
those with retroactive effect, could result in increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. For example, 
beginning in 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminated the option to deduct research and development expenditures 
immediately in the year incurred and requires taxpayers to amortize such expenditures over five years for tax purposes (research 
and development capitalization). While the most significant impact of this provision was to cash tax liability for 2022, the tax 
year  in  which  the  provision  took  effect,  the  impact  will  continue  over  the  five-year  amortization  period,  but  decline  to  an 
immaterial amount in year six.

The amount of net deferred tax assets will change periodically based on several factors, including the measurement of our 
postretirement benefit plan obligations, actual cash contributions to our postretirement benefit plans, change in the amount or 
reevaluation of uncertain tax positions, and future changes in tax laws. In addition, we are regularly under audit or examination 
by  tax  authorities,  including  foreign  tax  authorities.  The  final  determination  of  tax  audits  and  any  related  litigation  could 
similarly result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows.

Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance.

A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology 
products and systems. New technologies may be untested or unproven. Failure of some of these products and services could 
result in extensive loss of life or property damage. Accordingly, we may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and 
services.  In  some  but  not  all  circumstances,  we  may  be  entitled  to  certain  legal  protections  or  indemnifications  from  our 
customers, either through U.S. Government indemnifications under Public Law 85-804, 10 U.S.C. 3861, the Commercial Space 
Launch  Act  or  the  Price-Anderson  Act,  qualification  of  our  products  and  services  by  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security 
under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, contractual provisions or otherwise.

We seek to obtain insurance coverage from established and reputable insurance carriers to the extent available in order to 
cover these risks and liabilities. However, the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain or that is available to purchase in 
the market may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. Insurance coverage is subject to the terms and conditions of the 
insurance contract and is further subject to any sublimits, exclusions, restrictions, or defenses, including standard exclusions for 
acts of war. Existing coverage is renewed annually and may be canceled pursuant to the terms of the policies while we remain 

20

exposed  to  the  risk  and  it  is  not  possible  to  obtain  insurance  to  protect  against  all  operational  risks,  natural  hazards  and 
liabilities. For example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover unusually hazardous risks or certain 
natural hazards such as earthquakes, fires or extreme weather conditions, some of which may be exacerbated by climate change. 
We have significant operations in geographic areas prone to these risks, such as in California, Florida and Texas and certain of 
our properties have suffered damage from natural disasters in the past and may again in the future. We could incur significant 
costs  to  improve  the  climate  resiliency  of  our  infrastructure  and  supply  chain  and  otherwise  prepare  for,  respond  to,  and 
mitigate the effects of climate change. In addition, under certain classified fixed price development and production contracts, 
we are unable to insure risk of loss to government property because of the classified nature of the contracts and the inability to 
disclose  classified  information  necessary  for  underwriting  and  claims  to  commercial  insurers.  Even  if  insurance  coverage  is 
available, we may not be able to obtain it in an amount, at a price or on terms acceptable to us. Some insurance providers may 
be  unable  or  unwilling  to  provide  us  insurance  given  the  nature  of  our  business  or  products.  Additionally,  disputes  with 
insurance carriers over coverage terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the 
amount or timing of our cash flows.

Substantial costs resulting from an accident; failure of or defect in our products or services; natural catastrophe or other 
incident;  or  liability  arising  from  our  products  and  services  in  excess  of  any  legal  protection,  indemnity,  and  our  insurance 
coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, 
cash flows, and operating results. Any accident, failure of, or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or 
insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete 
effectively. It also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future.

Environmental regulations, including in relation to climate change, could adversely affect our future earnings as well as the 
affordability of our products and services.

We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign requirements for the protection of the environment, including those for 
discharge  of  hazardous  materials  and  remediation  of  contaminated  sites.  Due  in  part  to  the  complexity  and  pervasiveness  of 
these  requirements,  we  are  a  party  to  or  have  property  subject  to  various  lawsuits,  proceedings,  and  remediation  obligations. 
These types of matters could result in fines, penalties, cost reimbursements or contributions, compensatory or treble damages or 
non-monetary sanctions or relief. We have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities for environmental remediation at some 
of our current and former facilities and at third-party-owned sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party 
as a result of our historical activities and those of our predecessor companies. Environmental remediation activities usually span 
many years, and the extent of financial exposure can be difficult to estimate. Among the variables management must assess in 
evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, 
impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, continually evolving 
environmental  standards,  availability  of  insurance  coverage  and  indemnification  under  existing  agreements  and  cost 
allowability issues, including varying efforts by the U.S. Government to limit allowability of our costs in resolving liability at 
third-party-owned  sites.  Our  environmental  remediation  related  liabilities  also  could  increase  significantly  because  of 
acquisitions,  stricter  remediation  standards  for  existing  or  newly  regulated  substances,  changes  in  the  interpretation  or 
enforcement  of  existing  laws  and  regulations,  or  the  discovery  of  previously  unknown  or  more  extensive  contamination.  For 
information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for environmental 
remediation  to  the  extent  probable  and  estimable,  see  “Critical  Accounting  Policies  -  Environmental  Matters”  in  the  MD&A 
and  “Note  14  –  Legal  Proceedings,  Commitments  and  Contingencies”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements.

We  manage  and  have  managed  various  U.S.  Government-owned  facilities  on  behalf  of  the  U.S.  Government.  At  such 
facilities,  environmental  compliance  and  remediation  costs  historically  have  been  the  responsibility  of  the  U.S.  Government. 
We have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, on U.S. Government funding to pay at least a portion if not 
all  of  such  costs,  notwithstanding  efforts  by  some  U.S.  Government  representatives  to  limit  the  U.S.  Government’s 
responsibility.  Although  the  U.S.  Government  remains  responsible  for  capital  and  operating  costs  associated  with 
environmental  compliance,  responsibility  for  fines  and  penalties  associated  with  environmental  noncompliance  typically  is 
borne by either the U.S. Government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. Some environmental 
laws  include  criminal  provisions.  A  conviction  under  environmental  law  could  affect  our  ability  to  be  awarded  future  or 
perform under existing U.S. Government contracts.

The increasing global regulatory focus on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and their potential impacts relating to climate 
change could result in laws, regulations or policies that significantly increase our direct and indirect operational and compliance 
burdens,  which  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.  These  laws,  regulations  or  policies 
could  take  many  forms,  including  carbon  taxes,  cap  and  trade  regimes,  increased  efficiency  standards,  GHG  reduction 
commitments, incentives or mandates for particular types of energy or changes in procurement laws. Changes in government 

21

procurement laws that mandate or take into account climate change considerations, such as the contractor’s GHG emissions, 
GHG  emission  reduction  targets,  lower  emission  products  or  other  climate  risks,  in  evaluating  bids  could  result  in  costly 
changes to our operations or affect our competitiveness on future bids, or our ability to bid at all. In addition to incurring direct 
costs to implement any climate-change related laws, regulations or policies, we may see indirect costs rise, such as increased 
energy or material costs, as a result of policies affecting other sectors of the economy. Although most of these increased costs 
likely would be recoverable through pricing, to the extent that the increase in our costs as a result of these policies are greater 
than  our  competitors  we  may  be  less  competitive  on  future  bids  or  the  total  increased  cost  in  our  industry’s  products  and 
services  could  result  in  lower  demand  from  our  customers.  We  monitor  developments  in  climate  change-related  laws, 
regulations and policies for their potential effect on us, however, we currently are not able to accurately predict the materiality 
of any potential costs associated with such developments. In addition, climate change-related litigation and investigations have 
increased  in  recent  years  and  any  claims  or  investigations  against  us  could  be  costly  to  defend  and  our  business  could  be 
adversely affected by the outcome.

We  are  involved  in  several  legal  proceedings.  We  cannot  predict  the  outcome  of  litigation  and  other  contingencies  with 
certainty.

Our  business  may  be  adversely  affected  by  the  outcome  of  legal  proceedings  and  other  contingencies  that  cannot  be 
predicted  with  certainty.  As  required  by  U.S.  GAAP,  we  estimate  loss  contingencies  and  establish  reserves  based  on  our 
assessment  of  contingencies  where  liability  is  deemed  probable  and  reasonably  estimable  considering  the  facts  and 
circumstances  known  to  us  at  a  particular  point  in  time.  Subsequent  developments  in  legal  proceedings  may  affect  our 
assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. 
For  a  description  of  our  current  legal  proceedings,  see  Item  3  -  Legal  Proceedings,  “Critical  Accounting  Policies  - 
Environmental  Matters”  in  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  and 
“Note 14 – Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock

There can be no assurance that we will continue to increase our dividend or to repurchase shares of our common stock.

Cash dividend payments and share repurchases are subject to limitations under applicable laws and the discretion of our 
Board  of  Directors  and  are  determined  after  considering  then-existing  conditions,  including  earnings,  other  operating  results 
and capital requirements and cash deployment alternatives. Our payment of dividends and share repurchases could vary from 
historical practices or our stated expectations. Decreases in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated 
with employee benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce net earnings and stockholders’ equity. 
Under  certain  circumstances,  a  deficit  in  stockholders’  equity  could  limit  our  ability  to  pay  dividends  and  make  share 
repurchases  under  Maryland  state  law  in  the  future.  In  addition,  the  timing  and  amount  of  share  repurchases  under  Board  of 
Directors approved share repurchase plans may differ from stated expectations and is within the discretion of management and 
will depend on many factors, including our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future or to borrow 
money from available financing sources, our results of operations, capital requirements and applicable law.

ITEM 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

ITEM 1C. 

Cybersecurity

We believe cybersecurity is critical to advancing our 21st Century Security vision and enabling our digital transformation 
efforts. As an aerospace and defense company, we face a multitude of cybersecurity threats that range from attacks common to 
most  industries,  such  as  ransomware  and  denial-of-service,  to  attacks  from  more  advanced  and  persistent,  highly  organized 
adversaries,  including  nation  state  actors,  that  target  the  defense  industrial  base  and  other  critical  infrastructure  sectors.  Our 
customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners face similar cybersecurity threats, and a cybersecurity incident 
impacting us or any of these entities could materially adversely affect our operations, performance and results of operations. 
These cybersecurity threats and related risks make it imperative that we are a leader in the information security field, and we 
expend considerable resources on cybersecurity. 

The  Board  of  Directors  oversees  management’s  processes  for  identifying  and  mitigating  risks,  including  cybersecurity 
risks, to help align our risk exposure with our strategic objectives. Senior leadership, including our Chief Information Security 
Officer (CISO), regularly briefs the Board of Directors on our cybersecurity and information security posture and the Board of 
Directors is apprised of cybersecurity incidents deemed to have a moderate or higher business impact, even if immaterial to us. 
The Classified Business and Security Committee of the Board of Directors is briefed by senior leadership, as appropriate, on the 

22

cybersecurity of classified programs and the security of our classified business supply chain. Other than oversight of classified 
business cybersecurity, the full Board retains oversight of cybersecurity because of its importance to Lockheed Martin and the 
heightened  risk  in  the  aerospace  and  defense  industry.  In  the  event  of  an  incident,  we  intend  to  follow  our  detailed  incident 
response  playbook,  which  outlines  the  steps  to  be  followed  from  incident  detection  to  mitigation,  recovery  and  notification, 
including notifying functional areas (e.g. legal), as well as senior leadership and the Board, as appropriate.

Our  corporate  information  security  organization,  led  by  our  CISO,  is  responsible  for  our  overall  information  security 
strategy,  policy,  security  engineering,  operations  and  cyber  threat  detection  and  response.  The  current  CISO  has  extensive 
information technology and program management experience, and has served many years in our corporate information security 
organization.  The  corporate  information  security  organization  manages  and  continually  enhances  a  robust  enterprise  security 
structure with the ultimate goal of preventing cybersecurity incidents to the extent feasible, while simultaneously increasing our 
system  resilience  in  an  effort  to  minimize  the  business  impact  should  an  incident  occur.  Central  to  this  organization  is  our 
computer incident response team (CIRT), which is responsible for the protection, detection and response capabilities used in the 
defense  of  Lockheed  Martin’s  data  and  enterprise  computing  networks.  Employees  outside  of  our  corporate  information 
security organization also have a role in our cybersecurity defenses and they are immersed in a corporate culture supportive of 
security, which we believe improves our cybersecurity.

The corporate information security organization has implemented a governance structure and processes to assess, identify, 
manage and report cybersecurity risks. We also have a corporate-wide counterintelligence and insider threat detection program 
to proactively identify external and internal threats, and mitigate those threats in a timely manner. As a defense contractor, we 
must  comply  with  extensive  regulations,  including  requirements  imposed  by  the  Defense  Federal  Acquisition  Regulation 
Supplement (DFARS) related to adequately safeguarding controlled unclassified information (CUI) and reporting cybersecurity 
incidents  to  the  DoD.  We  have  implemented  cybersecurity  policies  and  frameworks  based  on  industry  and  governmental 
standards to align closely with DoD requirements, instructions and guidance. Moreover, we continue to work with the DoD on 
assessing  cybersecurity  risk  and  on  policies  and  practices  aimed  at  mitigating  these  risks.  For  example,  we  have  worked  in 
collaboration  with  the  other  members  of  the  defense  industrial  base  to  support  DoD’s  development  of  the  Cybersecurity 
Maturity  Model  Certification  (CMMC)  program,  DoD’s  program  to  ensure  members  of  the  defense  industrial  base  meet 
cybersecurity requirements for handling CUI and federal contract information. We believe we are well positioned to meet the 
requirements  of  the  CMMC  and  are  preparing  for  certification  once  the  requirements  are  effective.  In  addition  to  following 
DoD guidance and implementing pre-existing third party frameworks, we have developed our own practices and frameworks, 
which  we  believe  enhance  our  ability  to  identify  and  manage  cybersecurity  risks.  For  example,  we  use  a  proactive  risk 
management strategy that we developed and implemented called the Intelligence Driven Defense® model that seeks to identify 
and  prevent  cybersecurity  incidents  by  understanding  the  nature  of  adversaries  and  using  this  information  to  minimize  the 
impact of an attack. 

Third parties also play a role in our cybersecurity. We engage third-party services to conduct evaluations of our security 
controls,  whether  through  penetration  testing,  independent  audits  or  consulting  on  best  practices  to  address  new  challenges. 
These evaluations include testing both the design and operational effectiveness of security controls. We also share and receive 
threat intelligence with  our  defense industrial  base  peers, government agencies, information sharing  and  analysis  centers and 
cybersecurity associations.

Assessing, identifying and managing cybersecurity related risks are integrated into our overall enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process. Cybersecurity related risks are included in the risk universe that the ERM function evaluates to assess top risks 
to  the  enterprise  on  an  annual  basis.  To  the  extent  the  ERM  process  identifies  a  heightened  cybersecurity  related  risk,  risk 
owners  are  assigned  to  develop  risk  mitigation  plans,  which  are  then  tracked  to  completion.  The  ERM  process’s  annual  risk 
assessment is presented to the Board of Directors.

We rely heavily on our supply chain to deliver our products and services to our customers, and a cybersecurity incident at a 
supplier,  subcontractor  or  joint  venture  partner  could  materially  adversely  impact  us.  We  assess  third  party  cybersecurity 
controls through a cybersecurity questionnaire and include security and privacy addendums to our contracts where applicable. 
We also contractually flow cybersecurity regulatory requirements to our subcontractors as required by the DFARS and other 
government  agency  specific  requirements.  These  contractual  flow  downs  include  the  requirement  that  our  subcontractors 
implement certain security controls, and that our subcontractors self-report the status of their implementation of these controls 
to  the  U.S.  Government.  These  government  contracting  regulations  may  create  challenges  for  our  supply  chain  and  increase 
costs.  We  also  require  that  our  subcontractors  report  cybersecurity  incidents  to  us  so  that  we  can  assess  the  impact  of  the 
incident  on  us.  For  select  suppliers,  we  engage  third-party  cybersecurity  monitoring  and  alerting  services,  and  seek  to  work 
directly with those suppliers to address potential deficiencies identified. We also make available cybersecurity education and 
awareness materials and briefings to our suppliers. 

23

Notwithstanding the extensive approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not be successful in preventing or mitigating a 
cybersecurity  incident  that  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  us.  While  Lockheed  Martin  maintains  cybersecurity 
insurance, the costs related to cybersecurity threats or disruptions may not be fully insured. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for a 
discussion of cybersecurity risks.

ITEM 2.

Properties

At December 31, 2023, we owned or leased building space (including offices, manufacturing plants, warehouses, service 
centers,  laboratories  and  other  facilities)  at  335  locations  primarily  in  the  U.S.  Additionally,  we  manage  or  occupy  9 
government-owned facilities under lease and other arrangements. At December 31, 2023, we had significant operations in the 
following locations:

Aeronautics - Palmdale, California; Marietta, Georgia; Greenville, South Carolina; and Fort Worth, Texas.

•
• Missiles  and  Fire  Control  -  Camden,  Arkansas;  Ocala  and  Orlando,  Florida;  Lexington,  Kentucky;  and  Grand  Prairie, 

Texas.
Rotary and Mission Systems - Stratford, Connecticut; Orlando, Florida; Moorestown/Mt. Laurel, New Jersey; Owego and 
Syracuse, New York; Manassas, Virginia; and Mielec, Poland.
Space  -  Huntsville,  Alabama;  Sunnyvale,  California;  Denver,  Colorado;  Cape  Canaveral,  Florida;  and  Valley  Forge, 
Pennsylvania.
Corporate activities - Bethesda, Maryland.

•

•

•

The following is a summary of our square feet of floor space owned, leased, or utilized by business segment at 

December 31, 2023 (in millions):

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space 
Corporate activities

Total

Owned
5.5 
7.8 
10.8 
9.3 
2.4 
35.8 

Leased
3.0 
2.6 
4.7 
3.0 
0.9 
14.2 

Government-
Owned 
14.8 
2.0 
0.2 
0.1 
— 
17.1 

Total
23.3 
12.4 
15.7 
12.4 
3.3 
67.1 

We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We may add, improve, replace, or reduce 

facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our operations.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are a party to litigation and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including matters arising 
under provisions relating to the protection of the environment, and are subject to contingencies related to certain businesses we 
previously owned. These types of matters could result in fines, penalties, cost reimbursements or contributions, compensatory 
or treble damages or non-monetary sanctions or relief. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of each of these 
matters will have a material adverse effect on the corporation as a whole, notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any 
matter  may  have  a  material  effect  on  our  net  earnings  and  cash  flows  in  any  particular  interim  reporting  period.  We  cannot 
predict the outcome of legal or other proceedings with certainty. 

We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign requirements for the protection of the environment, including those for 
discharge  of  hazardous  materials  and  remediation  of  contaminated  sites.  Due  in  part  to  the  complexity  and  pervasiveness  of 
these requirements, we are a party to or have property subject to various lawsuits, proceedings and remediation obligations. The 
extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. 

For  information  regarding  the  matters  discussed  above,  including  current  estimates  of  the  amounts  that  we  believe  are 
required  for  remediation  or  clean-up  to  the  extent  estimable,  see  “Critical  Accounting  Policies  -  Environmental  Matters”  in 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Note 14 – Legal Proceedings, 
Commitments and Contingencies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 4. 

Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

24

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 4(a). 

Information about our Executive Officers

Our executive officers as of January 23, 2024 are listed below, with their ages on that date, positions and offices currently 
held,  and  principal  occupation  and  business  experience  during  at  least  the  last  five  years.  There  are  no  family  relationships 
among any of our executive officers and directors. All executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Timothy S. Cahill (age 58), Executive Vice President – Missiles and Fire Control

Mr.  Cahill  has  served  as  Executive  Vice  President  for  the  Missiles  and  Fire  Control  (MFC)  business  segment,  since 
November 2022. Mr. Cahill previously served as Senior Vice President of Global Business Development & Strategy (GBD&S) 
from  March  2021  to  October  2022.  Prior  to  that,  Mr.  Cahill  served  as  Senior  Vice  President  Lockheed  Martin  International 
from October 2019 to March 2021; and as Vice President, Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) Systems for MFC from 
January 2016 to October 2019.

Stephanie C. Hill (age 58), Executive Vice President – Rotary and Mission Systems

Ms. Hill has served as Executive Vice President of the Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) business segment since June 
2020. She previously served as Senior Vice President, Enterprise Business Transformation from June 2019 to June 2020. Prior 
to  that,  she  was  Deputy  Executive  Vice  President  of  RMS  from  October  2018  to  June  2019;  and  Senior  Vice  President  for 
Corporate Strategy and Business Development from September 2017 to October 2018.

Maryanne R. Lavan (age 64), Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Ms. Lavan has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since September 2010.

Robert M. Lightfoot, Jr. (age 60), Executive Vice President – Space

Mr. Lightfoot has served as Executive Vice President of the Space business segment since January 2022. He previously 
served as Vice President, Operations for the Space business segment from June 2021 to December 2021. Prior to that, he served 
as Vice President, Strategy and Business Development of Space from May 2019 to June 2021. Prior to joining Lockheed Martin 
in 2019, Mr. Lightfoot served as President, LSINC Corporation, a provider of product development and engineering services, 
from  May  2018  to  May  2019.  Prior  to  that,  he  was  Associate  Administrator  at  the  National  Aeronautics  &  Space 
Administration (NASA), the agency’s highest-ranking civil service position, from March 2012 to April 2018. 

Jesus Malave (age 55), Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Malave has served as Chief Financial Officer since January 31, 2022. Prior to joining Lockheed Martin in 2022, Mr. 
Malave served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of L3Harris Technologies, Inc. (L3Harris) from June 2019 
to January 2022. Before joining L3Harris, Mr. Malave worked at United Technologies Corporation (UTC) as Vice President 
and  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  UTC’s  Carrier  Corporation  from  April  2018  to  June  2019;  and  as  Chief  Financial  Officer  of 
UTC’s Aerospace Systems from January 2015 to April 2018.

H. Edward Paul, III (age 48), Vice President and Controller

Mr. Paul has served as Vice President and Controller since June 2022. Previously, he served as Vice President, Accounting 

from March 2015 to July 2023. 

Maria A. Ricciardone (age 48), Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations

Ms.  Ricciardone  has  served  as  Vice  President,  Treasurer  and  Investor  Relations  since  January  1,  2024.  She  previously 
served  as  Vice  President,  Investor  Relations  from  October  2022  to  December  2023.  Prior  to  joining  Lockheed  Martin  in 
October 2022, she served as Vice President, Finance – FP&A and Global Components for Arrow Electronics from June 2019 to 
October 2022. Prior to that, she served as Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations at Hubbell Incorporated from March 
2015 to June 2019. 

25

Frank A. St. John (age 57), Chief Operating Officer

Mr. St. John has served as Chief Operating Officer since June 2020. He previously served as Executive Vice President of 
RMS  from  August  2019  to  June  2020.  Prior  to  that,  he  served  as  Executive  Vice  President  of  MFC  from  January  2018  to 
August 2019; and as Executive Vice President and Deputy Programs for MFC from June 2017 to January 2018.

James D. Taiclet (age 63), Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Taiclet has served as Chairman since March 2021 and as President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Lockheed 
Martin  since  June  2020.  He  has  served  on  the  Lockheed  Martin  Board  of  Directors  since  January  2018.  Previously,  he  was 
Chairman, President and CEO of American Tower Corporation from February 2004 to March 2020; and Executive Chairman 
from March 2020 to May 2020. 

Gregory M. Ulmer (age 59), Executive Vice President – Aeronautics

Mr. Ulmer has served as Executive Vice President for the Aeronautics business segment since February 2021. He served as 
Vice President and General Manager, F-35 Lightning II Program from March 2018 to January 2021. Prior to that, he served as 
Vice President, F-35 Aircraft Production business unit from March 2016 to March 2018.

26

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities

At January 19, 2024, we had 22,665 holders of record of our common stock, par value $1 per share. Our common stock is 

traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol LMT. 

Stockholder Return Performance Graph

The following graph compares the total return on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2023, assuming reinvestment 
of dividends, of $100 invested in Lockheed Martin common stock as of market close on December 31, 2018 to the Standard and 
Poor’s (S&P) 500 Index and the S&P Aerospace & Defense Index.

250

200

150

100

50

0

Dec-18

Mar-19

Jun-19

Sep-19

Dec-19

Mar-20

Jun-20

Sep-20

Dec-20

Mar-21

Jun-21

Sep-21

Dec-21

Mar-22

Jun-22

Sep-22

Dec-22

Mar-23

Jun-23

Sep-23

Dec-23

Lockheed Martin Common Stock

S&P 500 Index

S&P Aerospace & Defense Index

The  S&P  Aerospace  &  Defense  Index  comprises  The  Boeing  Company,  General  Dynamics  Corporation,  Howmet 
Aerospace Inc., Huntington Ingalls Industries, L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman 
Corporation, RTX Corporation, Textron Inc. and Transdigm Group Inc. The stockholder return performance indicated on the 
graph is not a guarantee of future performance.

This graph is not deemed to be “filed” with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to the liabilities of 
Section  18  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  (the  Exchange  Act),  and  should  not  be  deemed  to  be  incorporated  by 
reference into any of our prior or subsequent filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.

27

 
Purchases of Equity Securities

There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2023.

The following table provides information about our repurchases of our common stock that is registered pursuant to Section 

12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the quarter ended December 31, 2023.

  Period (a)

Total
Number of
Shares
Purchased

Average
Price Paid
Per Share

Total Number of
Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans
or Programs

Approximate Dollar 
Value of Shares That 
May Yet be Purchased 
Under the Plans or 
Programs (b)
(in millions)

September 25, 2023 – October 29, 2023

October 30, 2023 – November 26, 2023

  1,265,110  $ 

446.24 

  2,775,003  $ 

447.82 

November 27, 2023 – December 31, 2023

  2,675,777  $ 

446.97 

1,264,627  $ 

2,774,470  $ 

2,669,558  $ 

Total (c)

  6,715,890  $ 

447.18 

6,708,655 

12,459 

11,217 

10,023 

(b)

(a) We close our books and records on the last Sunday of each month to align our financial closing with our business processes, except for 
the month of December, as our fiscal year ends on December 31. As a result, our fiscal months often differ from the calendar months. 
For example, November 27, 2023 was the first day of our December 2023 fiscal month.
In 2010, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase our common 
stock in privately negotiated transactions or in the open market at prices per share not exceeding the then-current market prices. From 
time to time, our Board of Directors authorizes increases to our share repurchase program. On October 6, 2023, the Board of Directors 
authorized an increase to the program by $6.0 billion. The total remaining authorization for future common share repurchases under our 
share repurchase program was $10.0 billion as of December 31, 2023. Under the program, management has discretion to determine the 
dollar  amount  of  shares  to  be  repurchased  and  the  timing  of  any  repurchases  in  compliance  with  applicable  law  and  regulation.  This 
includes  purchases  pursuant  to  Rule  10b5-1  plans,  including  accelerated  share  repurchases.  The  program  does  not  have  an  expiration 
date.

(c) During the fourth quarter of 2023, the total number of shares purchased included 7,235 shares that were transferred to us by employees 
in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock units. These purchases were made pursuant to 
a separate authorization by our Board of Directors and are not included within the share repurchase program described above. 

ITEM 6. 

[Reserved]

28

 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The  following  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  (MD&A)  is 
intended  to  help  the  reader  understand  our  results  of  operations  and  financial  condition.  The  MD&A  is  provided  as  a 
supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 
8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The MD&A generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions 
of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in 
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results or Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on January 26, 2023.

Business Overview

We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, 
integration  and  sustainment  of  advanced  technology  systems,  products  and  services.  We  also  provide  a  broad  range  of 
management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. Our main areas of focus 
are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cybersecurity. We serve both U.S. 
and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal 
customers  being  agencies  of  the  U.S.  Government.  In  2023,  73%  of  our  $67.6  billion  in  net  sales  were  from  the  U.S. 
Government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including 64% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 26% 
were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and 1% 
were from U.S. commercial and other customers.

We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Missiles and Fire Control (MFC), Rotary and Mission Systems (RMS) 

and Space. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. 

We operate in a complex and evolving global security environment. Our strategy consists of the design and development 
of platforms and systems that meet the current needs of our customers and the future requirements of 21st Century Security. 
Our vision for 21st Century Security is to accelerate the adoption of advanced networking and leading-edge technologies into 
our national defense enterprise, while enhancing the performance and value of our platforms and products for our customers. 
The aim of 21st Century Security is to integrate new and existing systems across all domains with advanced, open-architecture 
networking and operational technologies to make defense forces more agile, adaptive and unpredictable. 

Twenty-first  Century  Security  is  an  overarching  vision  that  guides  our  investment  and  strategy.  We  are  also  focused  on 
four elements for potential growth in the near to mid-term: current programs of record, classified programs, hypersonics and 
new awards. We have multiple programs of record from each business segment that are entering growth stages, including the 
F-35  sustainment  activity  (Aeronautics);  increased  Patriot  Advanced  Capability-3  (PAC-3)  production  rates  and  increased 
demand  for  High  Mobility  Artillery  Rocket  System  (HIMARS®)  and  Guided  Multiple  Launch  Rocket  Systems  (GMLRS) 
(Missiles  and  Fire  Control);  radar  surveillance  systems  and  CH-53K  King  Stallion  heavy  lift  helicopter  (Rotary  and  Mission 
Systems); and the modernization and enhancements to the Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) (Space). We are engaged 
in significant classified development programs and pending successful achievement of the objectives within those programs, we 
expect to begin the transition from development to production over the next few years. We are currently performing on multiple 
hypersonics programs and following the successful completion of ongoing testing and evaluation activity, multiple programs 
are  expected  to  enter  early  production  phases  through  2026.  Finally,  we  are  always  in  pursuit  of  new  program  awards  to 
develop future platforms that enable us to continue to place security capability into the market and expand our global reach.

Key to enabling success of our strategy is developing differentiating technologies, forging strategic partnerships, including 
with commercial companies, executing on our multi-year business transformation initiative to enhance our digital infrastructure 
and increase efficiencies and collaboration throughout our business and maintaining fiscal discipline. Underpinning our ability 
to  execute  our  strategy  is  our  talent  and  culture.  We  invest  substantially  in  our  people  to  ensure  that  our  workforce  has  the 
technical  skills  necessary  to  succeed,  and  we  expect  to  continue  to  invest  internally  in  innovative  technologies  that  address 
rapidly  evolving  mission  requirements  for  our  customers.  We  also  will  continue  to  evaluate  our  portfolio  and  will  make 
strategic  acquisitions  or  divestitures,  as  appropriate,  while  deepening  our  connection  to  commercial  industry  through 
cooperative partnerships, joint ventures and equity investments. 

Portfolio Shaping Activities

We  continuously  strive  to  strengthen  our  portfolio  of  products  and  services  to  meet  the  current  and  future  needs  of  our 
customers.  We  accomplish  this  in  part  by  our  independent  research  and  development  activities  and  through  acquisition, 
divestiture and internal realignment activities.

29

We selectively pursue the acquisition of businesses, investments and ventures at attractive valuations that will expand or 
complement our current portfolio and allow access to new customers or technologies. We also may explore the divestiture of 
businesses,  investments  or  ventures  that  no  longer  meet  our  needs  or  strategy  or  that  could  perform  better  outside  of  our 
organization or with a different owner. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and 
enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and equity investments.

U.S. Budget Environment

With nearly three quarters of our sales from the U.S. Government, U.S. Government spending levels, particularly defense 

spending, and timely funding thereof can affect our financial performance over the short and long term.

The President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 budget request was submitted to Congress on March 9, 2023, initiating the FY 
2024 defense authorization and appropriations legislative process. The request included $886 billion for National Defense, of 
which $842 billion is for the Department of Defense (DoD) base budget.

On June 3, 2023, the President signed H.R. 3746 “The Fiscal Responsibility Act” (FRA) into law. The legislation 
suspended the debt ceiling until January 1, 2025, and, among other provisions, capped national defense spending at $886 billion 
for FY 2024 (President’s Budget Request level) and $895 billion for FY 2025. Supplemental funding legislation is not subject 
to the budget caps. If a continuing resolution is enacted and still in effect and Congress does not pass all twelve defense and 
non-defense discretionary appropriations bills by April 30, 2024, the FRA will result in a decrease in government spending for 
FY 2024 by one percent from FY 2023 enacted levels.

The  House  and  Senate  continue  the  legislative  process  on  the  FY  2024  budget.  On  December  22,  2023,  the  President 
signed the FY 2024 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law. The NDAA authorizes funding at the FRA cap of 
$886 billion for National Defense. 

On  January  19,  2024,  the  President  signed  a  continuing  resolution  that  extends  funding  of  four  appropriations  bills  to 
March 1, 2024 and the remaining eight to March 8, 2024. This will provide Congress additional time to enact all twelve FY 
2024 appropriations bills based on the overarching U.S. Government spending agreement reached by House and Senate leaders 
on January 7, 2024 which comports with the FRA cap of $886 billion for National Defense in FY 2024. Overall, congressional 
sentiment  remains  strong  for  supporting  the  National  Defense  Strategy  and  defense  spending.  However,  the  logistical  and 
political challenges, especially in the U.S. House of Representatives, are complex and add funding risk. 

Under  the  continuing  resolution,  funding  at  amounts  consistent  with  appropriated  levels  for  FY  2023  are  available, 
subject  to  certain  restrictions,  but  new  contract  and  program  starts  are  not  authorized.  We  expect  our  key  programs  will 
continue  to  be  supported  and  funded  under  the  continuing  resolution.  However,  during  periods  covered  by  continuing 
resolutions, we may experience delays in new awards of our products and services, and those delays may adversely affect our 
results of operations. 

On October 20, 2023, the President submitted a $106 billion supplemental funding request to Congress for assistance to 
Ukraine, Israel and the Indo-Pacific; related U.S. restock of capacity transfers to Ukraine and Israel; and U.S. border security. 
Congress  has  not  yet  acted  on  this  request,  which  is  part  of  the  broader  debate  on  FY  2024  U.S.  Government  funding  and 
border security policy. Supplemental and emergency funding are not subject to the FRA cap. If enacted, this would provide a 
partial relief valve for DoD funding limits under the FRA or other limiting scenarios such as a prolonged continuing resolution.

If Congress is not able to enact FY 2024 appropriations bills or extend the continuing resolution, the U.S. Government 
will  enter  a  whole  or  partial  shutdown.  The  impact  of  any  government  shutdown  is  uncertain.  However,  if  a  government 
shutdown  were  to  occur  and  were  to  continue  for  an  extended  period,  we  could  be  at  risk  of  reduced  orders,  program 
cancellations, schedule delays, production halts and other disruptions and nonpayment, which could adversely affect our results 
of  operations.  Further,  if  any  one  of  the  12  appropriations  bills  is  under  a  continuing  resolution  as  of  April  30,  2024,  USG 
funding levels will reset to FY 2023 enacted levels minus 1% for the remainder of FY 2024 or until all 12 appropriations are 
enacted.

We anticipate the federal budget will continue to be subject to debate and compromise shaped by, among other things, 
heightened political tensions, the global security environment, inflationary pressures, and macroeconomic conditions. The result 
may be shifting funding priorities, which could have material impacts on defense spending broadly and our programs.

Geopolitical and Economic Environment

We operate in a complex and evolving global security environment and our business is affected by geopolitical issues. 
Russia’s  invasion  of  Ukraine  significantly  elevated  global  geopolitical  tensions  and  security  concerns  resulting  in  increased 

30

interest  for  certain  of  our  products  and  services  as  countries  seek  to  improve  their  security  posture.  In  addition,  security 
assistance  provided  by  the  U.S.  Government  and  its  allies  to  Ukraine  has  created  U.S.  Government  and  allied  demand  to 
replenish  U.S.  stockpiles,  resulting  in  additional  and  potential  future  orders  for  our  products,  including  for  the  ramp-up  in 
production capacity for certain products. Although we received new orders in 2023 attributable to a response to the conflict and 
continue to expect to receive them over the next several years, given the long-cycle nature of our business and current industry 
capacity, the orders did not result in a significant increase in 2023 sales. We continue to work with the U.S. Government and 
our supply chain to evaluate increases in capacity at certain of our operations to anticipate potential demand and enable us to 
deliver critical capabilities.

Our business and financial performance is also affected by general economic conditions. Supply chain disruptions persist, 
and  we  continue  to  experience  supply  chain  challenges,  including  supplier  shortages  and  performance  issues,  which  have 
delayed  certain  customer  deliveries  and  adversely  impacted  our  performance  and  our  2023  financial  results.  Although  we 
continue working to minimize the impact of supply chain challenges, many of these challenges are industry wide or caused by 
geopolitical  events  that  are  outside  of  our  control.  In  addition,  heightened  levels  of  inflation  and  the  potential  worsening  of 
macro-economic conditions present risks for Lockheed Martin, our suppliers and the stability of the broader defense industrial 
base.  Certain  costs,  including  rising  labor  rates  and  supplier  costs,  on  several  of  our  programs  have  increased  as  a  result  of 
inflation,  and  put  pressure  on  achieving  our  expected  margins  on  the  programs.  In  addition,  some  suppliers  are  reducing  the 
typical duration of pricing validity in their proposals to us, which can be operationally challenging and increase the risk of cost 
volatility. If we continue to experience high rates of inflation, and we are unable to successfully mitigate the impact, our future 
profits, margins and cash flows, particularly for existing fixed-price contracts, may be adversely affected. Inflation and higher 
interest  rates  can  also  constrain  the  overall  purchasing  power  of  our  customers  for  our  products  and  services  potentially 
impacting future orders. We remain committed to our ongoing efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve 
the cost competitiveness and affordability of our products and services, which may, in part, offset cost increases from inflation.

International Business

A key component of our strategic plan is to grow our international sales. To accomplish this growth, we continue to focus 
on strengthening our relationships internationally through partnerships and joint technology efforts. Our international business 
is  conducted  either  by  foreign  military  sales  (FMS)  contracted  through  the  U.S.  Government  or  by  direct  commercial  sales 
(DCS)  to  international  customers.  In  2023,  approximately  75%  of  our  sales  to  international  customers  were  FMS  and  about 
25% were DCS. Additionally, in 2023, substantially all of our sales from international customers were in our Aeronautics, MFC 
and RMS business segments. Space’s sales from international customers were not material in 2023. See Item 1A - Risk Factors 
for a discussion of risks related to international sales.

In 2023, international customers accounted for 33% of Aeronautics’ net sales. There continues to be strong international 
interest in the F-35 program, which includes commitments from the U.S. Government and seven international partner countries 
and  nine  FMS  customers,  as  well  as  expressions  of  interest  from  other  countries.  The  U.S.  Government  and  the  partner 
countries  continue  to  work  together  on  the  design,  testing,  production  and  sustainment  of  the  F-35  program.  Other  areas  of 
international expansion at our Aeronautics business segment include the F-16 and C-130J programs, which continue to draw 
interest from international customers for new aircraft.

In 2023, international customers accounted for 31% of MFC’s net sales. Our MFC business segment continues to generate 
significant  international  interest,  most  notably  in  the  air  and  missile  defense  product  line,  which  produces  the  PAC-3  and 
Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) systems. Fifteen nations have chosen PAC-3 Cost Reduction Initiative (CRI) 
and  PAC-3  Missile  Segment  Enhancement  (MSE)  to  provide  missile  defense  capabilities.  Additionally,  we  continue  to  see 
international  demand  for  our  tactical  and  strike  missile  products,  where  we  received  orders  for  precision  fires  systems  from 
Germany and Taiwan and for Long Range Anti-Ship Missiles (LRASM) from Australia.

In 2023, international customers accounted for 31% of RMS’ net sales. Our RMS business segment continues to experience 
international interest in the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System (Aegis) for which we perform activities in the development, 
production, modernization, ship integration, test and lifetime support for ships of international customers such as Japan, Spain, 
Republic  of  Korea  and  Australia.  We  have  ongoing  combat  systems  programs  associated  with  different  classes  of  surface 
combatant ships for customers in Canada, Chile and New Zealand. Our Multi-Mission Surface Combatant (MMSC) program 
will provide surface combatant ships for international customers, such as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, designed to operate in 
shallow waters and the open ocean. In our training and logistics solutions portfolio, we have active programs and pursuits in the 
United  Kingdom,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  Canada,  Singapore,  Australia,  Germany  and  France.  We  have  active 
development,  production  and  sustainment  support  of  the  S-70  Black  Hawk  and  MH-60  Seahawk  helicopters  to  international 
customers,  including  India,  Philippines,  Australia,  Republic  of  Korea,  Thailand,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  Greece. 
Additionally, in December 2021, the Israeli Ministry of Defense signed a Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) to procure 12 
CH-53K  King  Stallion  heavy  lift  helicopters,  with  the  first  four  awarded  in  2022  and  the  remaining  awarded  in  2023. 

31

Commercial aircraft are sold to international customers to support search and rescue missions as well as VIP and offshore oil 
and gas transportation. 

Status of the F-35 Program

The  F-35  program  primarily  consists  of  production  contracts,  sustainment  activities,  and  new  development  efforts. 
Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government’s current inventory objective of 
2,456  aircraft  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  U.S.  Marine  Corps,  and  U.S.  Navy;  commitments  from  our  seven  international  partner 
countries and nine Foreign Military Sales (FMS) customers; as well as interest from other countries. We continue to see strong 
international demand for the F-35. The Government of Canada announced in January 2023 its commitment to purchase 88 F-35 
aircraft. In February 2023, the Government of Singapore announced its intent to exercise an option to purchase an additional 
eight F-35 aircraft, increasing its total quantity to 12. In September 2023, the Israel Defense Ministry submitted an official letter 
of request to advance Israel’s procurement of a third F-35 squadron, increasing its total quantity of aircraft from 50 to 75. Also 
in September 2023, the U.S. Department of State formally approved the sale of up to 25 more F-35s to South Korea, beyond the 
currently  approved  purchase  of  40  aircraft.  In  November  2023,  the  Government  of  Romania  submitted  an  official  letter  of 
request for a Letter of Offer and Acceptance to the U.S. Government for 32 F-35 aircraft. 

During  2023,  we  delivered  98  aircraft  and  had  a  backlog  of  373  aircraft.  Since  program  inception  through  the  end  of 
2023, we delivered 992 production F-35 aircraft to U.S. and international customers, including 710 F-35A variants, 197 F-35B 
variants, and 85 F-35C variants, demonstrating the F-35 program’s continued progress and longevity.

Regarding the F-35 Technology Refresh 3 (TR-3) status, a second quarter 2024 customer acceptance of delivery software 
remains our target; however, we believe the third quarter 2024 may be a more likely scenario for TR-3 software acceptance. 
Additionally,  we  remain  focused  on  receiving  the  necessary  hardware  from  our  suppliers  to  deliver  this  critical  combat 
capability for the F-35.

Given the size and complexity of the F-35 program, we anticipate that there will be continual reviews related to aircraft 
performance,  program,  and  delivery  schedule,  cost,  and  requirements  as  part  of  the  DoD,  Congressional,  and  international 
countries’  oversight,  and  budgeting  processes.  Areas  of  focus  include  our  and  our  suppliers’  performance,  software 
development  (including,  in  particular,  software  maturation  related  to  the  TR-3  configuration),  execution  of  future  flight  tests 
and findings resulting from testing and operating the aircraft, the level of cost associated with life cycle operations, sustainment 
and potential contractual obligations, inflation-related cost pressures, and the ability to improve affordability.

Backlog

At December 31, 2023, our backlog was $160.6 billion compared with $150.0 billion at December 31, 2022. Backlog is 
converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. We expect to recognize approximately 36% 
of  our  backlog  over  the  next  12  months  and  approximately  62%  over  the  next  24  months  as  revenue,  with  the  remainder 
recognized thereafter.

Our backlog includes both funded (firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized 
and appropriated by the customer) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not 
include unexercised options or potential orders under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) agreements in our backlog. 
If  any  of  our  contracts  with  firm  orders  were  to  be  terminated,  our  backlog  would  be  reduced  by  the  expected  value  of  the 
unfilled orders of such  contracts. Funded  backlog  was  $107.4 billion at December 31, 2023, as compared to $95.5 billion at 
December 31, 2022. For backlog related to each of our business segments, see below.

32

Consolidated Results of Operations

Our  operating  cycle  is  primarily  long-term  and  involves  many  types  of  contracts  for  the  design,  development  and 
manufacture  of  products  and  related  activities  with  varying  delivery  schedules.  Consequently,  the  results  of  operations  of  a 
particular  year,  or  year-to-year  comparisons  of  sales  and  profits,  may  not  be  indicative  of  future  operating  results.  The 
following  discussions  of  comparative  results  should  be  reviewed  in  this  context.  All  per  share  amounts  cited  in  these 
discussions are presented on a “per diluted share” basis, unless otherwise noted. Our consolidated results of operations were as 
follows (in millions, except per share data):

Net sales
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Other income, net
Operating profit
Interest expense
Non-service FAS pension income (expense)
Other non-operating income (expense), net
Earnings before income taxes
Income tax expense
Net earnings
Diluted earnings per common share

2023
$  67,571 
(59,092) 
8,479 
28 
8,507 
(916) 
443 
64 
8,098 
(1,178) 
6,920 
27.55 

$ 
$ 

2022
$  65,984 
(57,697) 
8,287 
61 
8,348 
(623) 
(971) 
(74) 
6,680 
(948) 
5,732 
21.66 

$ 
$ 

2021
$  67,044 
(57,983) 
9,061 
62 
9,123 
(569) 
(1,292) 
288 
7,550 
(1,235) 
6,315 
22.76 

$ 
$ 

Certain  amounts  reported  in  other  income  (expense),  net,  including  our  share  of  earnings  or  losses  from  equity  method 
investees,  are  included  in  the  operating  profit  of  our  business  segments.  Accordingly,  such  amounts  are  included  in  the 
discussion of our business segment results of operations.

Net Sales

We generate sales from the delivery of products and services to our customers. Our consolidated net sales were as follows 

(in millions):

Products

% of total net sales

Services

% of total net sales
Total net sales

2023
$  56,265 

2022
$  55,466 

2021
$  56,435 

 83.3  %

 84.1  %

 84.2  %

  11,306 

  10,518 

  10,609 

 16.7  %

 15.9  %

 15.8  %

$  67,571 

$  65,984 

$  67,044 

Substantially  all  of  our  contracts  are  accounted  for  using  the  percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  method.  Under  the 
percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  method,  we  record  net  sales  on  contracts  over  time  based  upon  our  progress  towards 
completion on a particular contract, as well as our estimate of the profit to be earned at completion. The following discussion of 
material  changes  in  our  consolidated  net  sales  should  be  read  in  tandem  with  the  subsequent  discussion  of  changes  in  our 
consolidated  cost  of  sales  and  our  business  segment  results  of  operations  because  changes  in  our  sales  are  typically 
accompanied  by  a  corresponding  change  in  our  cost  of  sales  due  to  the  nature  of  the  percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost 
method.

Product Sales

Product  sales  increased $799  million,  or  1%,  in  2023  as  compared  to  2022.  The  increase  was  primarily  attributable  to 
higher product sales of approximately $940 million at Space mostly due to ramp up in the Next Generation Interceptor (NGI) 
development program and higher volume in the Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) program.

Service Sales

Service sales increased $788 million, or 7%, in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase in service sales was primarily due 

to higher sales of approximately $600 million at Aeronautics due to higher volume on F-35 sustainment contracts.

33

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost of Sales 

Cost of sales, for both products and services, consist of materials, labor, subcontracting costs and an allocation of indirect 
costs (overhead and general and administrative), as well as the costs to fulfill our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes 
referred  to  as  offset  agreements,  required  under  certain  contracts  with  international  customers.  For  each  of  our  contracts,  we 
monitor the nature and amount of costs at the contract level, which form the basis for estimating our total costs to complete the 
contract. Our consolidated cost of sales were as follows (in millions):

Cost of sales – products
% of product sales
Cost of sales – services
% of service sales

Severance and other charges
Other unallocated, net
Total cost of sales

2023
$ (50,206) 

2022 a
$ (49,357) 

2021 a
$ (50,017) 

 89.2  %

 89.0  %

 88.6  %

  (10,027) 

(9,252) 

(9,434) 

 88.7  %
(92) 
1,233 
$ (59,092) 

 88.0  %
(100) 
1,012 
$ (57,697) 

 88.9  %
(36) 
1,504 
$ (57,983) 

(a)

Effective January 1, 2023, we reclassified intangible asset amortization expense out of the business segment operating profit and into 
the unallocated items line item to better align with how management views and manages the business. See “Note 1 – Organization and 
Significant  Accounting  Policies”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  further  information  regarding  the 
impact of this change on our current and prior period segment operating profit.

The following discussion of material changes in our consolidated cost of sales for products and services should be read in 
tandem with the preceding discussion of changes in our consolidated net sales and our business segment results of operations. 
Except for potential impacts to our programs resulting from supply chain disruptions and inflation, we have not identified any 
additional  developing  trends  in  cost  of  sales  for  products  and  services  that  would  have  a  material  impact  on  our  future 
operations.

Product Costs

Product costs increased  approximately $849  million, or 2%, in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase was  primarily 
attributable  to  higher  product  costs  of  $815  million  at  Space  due  to  ramp  up  in  the  Next  Generation  Interceptor  (NGI) 
development program and higher volume in the Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) program.

Service Costs

Service  costs  increased  approximately  $775  million,  or  8%,  in  2023  compared  to  2022.  The  increase  was  primarily 
attributable  to  higher  service  costs  of  approximately  $570  million  at  Aeronautics  due  to  higher  volume  on  F-35  sustainment 
contracts.

Severance and other charges

During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recorded severance and other charges of $92 million ($73 million, or $0.30 per share, 
after-tax)  associated  with  severance  costs  for  the  planned  reduction  of  certain  positions  across  the  corporation  and  asset 
impairment  charges.  Upon  separation,  terminated  employees  will  receive  lump-sum  severance  payments  primarily  based  on 
years of service, the majority of which are expected to be paid over the next several quarters. This action resulted from a review 
of our business segments and corporate functions and is intended to improve the efficiency of our operations. 

        During the fourth quarter of 2022, we recorded severance and other charges totaling $100 million ($79 million, or $0.31
per share, after-tax) related to actions at our RMS business segment, which include severance costs for reduction of positions 
and asset impairment charges. After a strategic review of RMS, these actions improved the efficiency of our operations and 
better aligned the organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions and changes in program lifecycles.

We  generally  can  recover  a  portion  of  severance  costs  through  the  pricing  of  our  products  and  services  to  the  U.S. 

Government and other customers in future periods, which will be included in our operating results.

34

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Unallocated, Net

Other  unallocated,  net  primarily  includes  the  FAS/CAS  pension  operating  adjustment  (which  represents  the  difference 
between  total  CAS  pension  cost  recorded  in  our  business  segments’  results  of  operations  and  the  service  cost  component  of 
Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) pension expense), stock-based compensation expense, changes in the fair value of assets 
and liabilities for deferred compensation plans, intangible asset amortization expense and other corporate costs. These items are 
not  allocated  to  the  business  segments  and,  therefore,  are  not  allocated  to  cost  of  sales  for  products  or  services.  Other 
unallocated, net reduced cost of sales by $1.2 billion in 2023, compared to $1.0 billion in 2022. There were lower losses from 
the changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities related to deferred compensation plans in 2023 compared to in 2022.

Other Income, Net

Other  income,  net  primarily  includes  earnings  generated  by  equity  method  investees.  Other  income,  net  in  2023  was 
$28  million,  compared  to  $61  million  in  2022.  Other  income,  net  in  2023  includes  lower  earnings  generated  by  our  equity 
method investment in United Launch Alliance (ULA) due to lower launch volume and an increase in new product development 
costs.

Interest Expense

Interest  expense  in  2023  was  $916  million,  compared to $623  million in 2022. The increase in interest  expense in 2023 
resulted  primarily  from  the  issuance  of  senior  unsecured  notes  in  May  2023  and  October  2022.  See  “Capital  Structure, 
Resources and Other” included within the “Liquidity and Cash Flows” discussion below and “Note 10 – Debt” included in our 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our debt.

Non-Service FAS Pension Income (Expense)

Non-service  FAS  pension  income  was  $443  million  in  2023,  compared  to  non-service  FAS  pension  expense  of 
$971 million in 2022. Non-service FAS pension expense in 2022 includes a noncash, non-operating pension settlement charge 
of  $1.5  billion  ($1.2  billion,  or  $4.33  per  share,  after-tax),  related  to  the  transfer  of  $4.3  billion  of  our  gross  defined  benefit 
pension  obligations  and  related  plan  assets  to  an  insurance  company  in  the  second  quarter  of  2022.  See  “Note  11  –
 Postretirement Benefit Plans” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Other Non-operating Income (Expense), Net 

Other non-operating income (expense), net primarily includes gains or losses related to changes in the fair value of early-
stage  company  investments  or  gains  or  losses  upon  sale  of  these  investments.  See  “Note  1  –  Organization  and  Significant 
Accounting  Policies”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional  information.  Other  non-
operating income, net in 2023 was $64 million, compared to other non-operating expense, net of $74 million in 2022. Other 
non-operating income (expense), net in 2023 includes higher interest income as a result of the higher rate environment we are 
seeing on a macro-economic scale and lower losses related to fair value adjustments of early-stage company investments.

Income Tax Expense

Our effective income tax rate was 14.5% for 2023 and 14.2% for 2022. The rates for all periods benefited from research 
and development tax credits, tax deductions for foreign derived intangible income, dividends paid to our defined contribution 
plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature and employee equity awards.

Changes  in  U.S.  (federal  or  state)  or  foreign  tax  laws  and  regulations,  or  their  interpretation  and  application  (including 
those with retroactive effect), such as the amortization for research or experimental expenditures, could significantly impact our 
provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable, our deferred tax asset and liability balances, and stockholders’ equity. 
In addition to future changes in tax laws, the amount of net deferred tax assets will change periodically based on several factors, 
including the measurement of our postretirement benefit plan obligations, actual cash contributions to our postretirement benefit 
plans and the change in the amount or reevaluation of uncertain tax positions.

On  September  8,  2023,  the  IRS  released  Notice  2023-63  providing  interim  guidance  on  research  and  development 
capitalization.  Based  on  our  analysis,  the  Notice  confirms  that  certain  expenditures  incurred  in  the  performance  of  cost-type 
contracts are not required to be capitalized. As a result, there has been a decrease to our uncertain tax position. IRS indicated in 
the Notice that it intends to issue proposed regulations consistent with the guidance set forth in the Notice. 

For  the  2023  tax  year,  research  and  development  capitalization  resulted  in  a  cash  tax  liability  of  approximately  $560 
million and our net deferred tax assets increased by a similar amount. While the largest impact of this provision was to the 2022 

35

cash  tax  liability,  the  impact  will  continue  over  the  five-year  amortization  period,  but  will  decrease  over  the  period  and  be 
immaterial by 2027.

We are regularly under audit or examination by tax authorities, including foreign tax authorities (including in, amongst 
others, Australia, Canada, India, Italy, Japan, Poland, and the United Kingdom). The final determination of tax audits and any 
related litigation could similarly result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows.

The  Organization  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD)  has  a  framework  to  implement  a  global 
minimum corporate tax of 15% for companies with global revenues and profits above certain thresholds (referred to as Pillar 2), 
with  certain  aspects  of  Pillar  2  effective  January  1,  2024  and  other  aspects  effective  January  1,  2025.  While  it  is  uncertain 
whether  the  U.S.  will  enact  legislation  to  adopt  Pillar  2,  certain  countries  in  which  we  operate  have  adopted  legislation,  and 
other countries are in the process of introducing legislation to implement Pillar 2. We do not expect Pillar 2 to have a material 
impact on our effective tax rate or our consolidated results of operation, financial position, and cash flows.

Net Earnings

We  reported  net  earnings  of  $6.9  billion  ($27.55  per  share)  in  2023  and  $5.7  billion  ($21.66  per  share)  in  2022.  Net 
earnings and earnings per share in 2023 were affected by the factors mentioned above. Earnings per share also benefited from a 
net  decrease  of  approximately  13.4  million  weighted  average  common  shares  outstanding  in  2023,  compared  to  2022.  The 
reduction in weighted average common shares was a result of share repurchases, partially offset by share issuance under our 
stock-based awards and certain defined contribution plans.

Business Segment Results of Operations

We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, MFC, RMS and Space. We organize our business segments based on 

the nature of products and services offered.

Net  sales  and  operating  profit  of  our  business  segments  exclude  intersegment  sales,  cost  of  sales  and  profit  as  these 
activities  are  eliminated  in  consolidation  and  thus  are  not  included  in  management’s  evaluation  of  performance  of  each 
segment.  Business  segment  operating  profit  includes  our  share  of  earnings  or  losses  from  equity  method  investees  as  the 
operating activities of the equity method investees are closely aligned with the operations of our business segments.

Business  segment  operating  profit  excludes  the  FAS/CAS  pension  operating  adjustment  described  below,  a  portion  of 
corporate  costs  not  considered  allowable  or  allocable  to  contracts  with  the  U.S.  Government  under  the  applicable  U.S. 
Government cost accounting standards (CAS) or federal acquisition regulations (FAR), and other items not considered part of 
management’s evaluation of segment operating performance. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” 
for a discussion related to certain factors that may impact the comparability of net sales and operating profit of our business 
segments.

36

Sales and operating profit for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions): 

2023

2022

2021

Net sales

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space

Total net sales
Operating profit
Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space

Total business segment operating profit

Unallocated items

     FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment 
Intangible asset amortization expense

     Severance and other charges (a)

Other, net 

Total unallocated, net
Total consolidated operating profit

$  27,474  $  26,987  $  26,748 
11,693 
16,789 
11,814 
$  67,571  $  65,984  $  67,044 

11,317 
16,148 
11,532 

11,253 
16,239 
12,605 

$ 

$ 

2,825  $ 
1,541 
1,865 
1,158 
7,389 

1,660 
(247)   
(92)   
(203)   
1,118 
8,507  $ 

2,867  $ 
1,637 
1,906 
1,057 
7,467 

1,709 
(248)   
(100)   
(480)   
881 
8,348  $ 

2,800 
1,650 
2,030 
1,184 
7,664 

1,960 
(285) 
(36) 
(180) 
1,459 
9,123 

(a)

See “Consolidated Results of Operations – Severance and Other Charges” discussion above for information on charges related to certain 
severance and other actions across our organization.

Effective  January  1,  2023,  we  no  longer  consider  amortization  expense  related  to  purchased  intangible  assets  when 
evaluating the  operating  performance of  our  business segments. This change  has been  applied to the accompanying amounts 
above, including the amounts for 2022 and 2021. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” included in 
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the impact of this change on our current and 
prior  period  segment  operating  profit.  We  also  included  supplemental  tables  under  the  caption  Pro  Forma  Business  Segment 
Summary Operating Results in our earnings release included as exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 
24, 2023, which provide unaudited pro forma financial information reflecting the impact of the change in presentation as-if it 
had been applicable for the quarters and year to date periods in 2022 and 2021. The supplemental tables, the earnings release 
and the Current Report on Form 8-K are not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein. 

Our  business  segments’  results  of  operations  include  pension  expense  only  as  calculated  under  U.S.  Government  Cost 
Accounting  Standards  (CAS),  which  we  refer  to  as  CAS  pension  cost.  We  recover  CAS  pension  and  other  postretirement 
benefit plan cost through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, recognize CAS 
pension cost in each of our business segment’s net sales and cost of sales. Our consolidated financial statements must present 
pension  and  other  postretirement  benefit  plan  income  calculated  in  accordance  with  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (FAS) 
requirements  under  U.S.  GAAP.  The  operating  portion  of  the  total  FAS/CAS  pension  adjustment  represents  the  difference 
between  the  service  cost  component  of  FAS  pension  income  (expense)  and  total  CAS  pension  cost.  The  non-service  FAS 
pension  income  (expense)  components  are  included  in  non-service  FAS  pension  income  (expense)  in  our  consolidated 
statements of earnings. As a result, to the extent that CAS pension cost exceeds the service cost component of FAS pension 
income (expense) we have a favorable FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment.

37

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total FAS/CAS pension adjustments, including the service and non-service cost components of FAS pension income 

(expense) for our qualified defined benefit pension plans, were as follows (in millions):

2023

2022

2021

Total FAS income (expense) and CAS cost

FAS pension income (expense) 
Less: CAS pension cost

Total FAS/CAS pension adjustment

Service and non-service cost reconciliation

FAS pension service cost
Less: CAS pension cost

Total FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment

Non-service FAS pension income (expense) 
Total FAS/CAS pension adjustment

$ 

378  $  (1,058)  $  (1,398) 
2,066 
668 

1,725 
$  2,103  $ 

738  $ 

1,796 

$ 

(65)  $ 

(87)  $ 

1,725 
1,660 
443 
$  2,103  $ 

1,796 
1,709 
(971)   
738  $ 

(106) 
2,066 
1,960 
(1,292) 
668 

The  total  FAS/CAS  pension  adjustment  in  2022  reflects  a  noncash,  non-operating  pension  settlement  charge  of 
$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion, or $4.33 per share, after-tax) recognized in connection with the transfer of $4.3 billion of our gross 
defined benefit pension obligations and related plan assets to an insurance company in the second quarter of 2022. The total 
FAS/CAS pension adjustment in 2021 reflects a noncash, non-operating pension settlement charge of $1.7 billion ($1.3 billion, 
or  $4.72  per  share,  after-tax)  recognized  in  connection  with  the  transfer  of  $4.9  billion  of  our  gross  defined  benefit  pension 
obligations and related plan assets to an insurance company in the third quarter of 2021. See “Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit 
Plans” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The  following  segment  discussions  also  include  information  relating  to  backlog  for  each  segment.  Backlog  was 
approximately $160.6 billion and $150.0 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022. These amounts included both funded backlog 
(firm orders for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders 
for  which  funding  has  not  yet  been  appropriated).  Backlog  does  not  include  unexercised  options  or  task  orders  to  be  issued 
under  indefinite-delivery,  indefinite-quantity  contracts.  Funded  backlog  was  approximately  $107.4  billion  at  December  31, 
2023, as compared to $95.5 billion at December 31, 2022. If any of our contracts with firm orders were to be terminated, our 
backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the unfilled orders of such contracts.

Management  evaluates  performance  on  our  contracts  by  focusing  on  net  sales  and  operating  profit  and  not  by  type  or 
amount of operating expense. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating 
profit,  consistent  with  our  approach  for  managing  the  business.  This  approach  is  consistent  throughout  the  life  cycle  of  our 
contracts,  as  management  assesses  the  bidding  of  each  contract  by  focusing  on  net  sales  and  operating  profit  and  monitors 
performance on our contracts in a similar manner through their completion.

We regularly provide customers with reports of our costs as the contract progresses. The cost information in the reports is 
accumulated in a manner specified by the requirements of each contract. For example, cost data provided to a customer for a 
product would typically align to the subcomponents of that product (such as a wing-box on an aircraft) and for services would 
align to the type of work being performed (such as aircraft sustainment). Our contracts generally allow for the recovery of costs 
in  the  pricing  of  our  products  and  services.  Most  of  our  contracts  are  bid  and  negotiated  with  our  customers  under 
circumstances in which we are required to disclose our estimated total costs to provide the product or service. This approach for 
negotiating contracts with our U.S. Government customers generally allows for recovery of our actual costs plus a reasonable 
profit  margin.  We  also  may  enter  into  long-term  supply  contracts  for  certain  materials  or  components  to  coincide  with  the 
production schedule of certain products and to ensure their availability at known unit prices.

Many of our contracts span several years and include highly complex technical requirements. At the outset of a contract, 
we  identify  and  monitor  risks  to  the  achievement  of  the  technical,  schedule  and  cost  aspects  of  the  contract  and  assess  the 
effects of those risks on our estimates of total costs to complete the contract. The estimates consider the technical requirements 
(e.g.,  a  newly-developed  product  versus  a  mature  product),  the  schedule  and  associated  tasks  (e.g.,  the  number  and  type  of 
milestone  events)  and  costs  (e.g.,  material,  labor,  subcontractor,  overhead  and  the  estimated  costs  to  fulfill  our  industrial 
cooperation  agreements,  sometimes  referred  to  as  offset  agreements,  required  under  certain  contracts  with  international 
customers).  The  initial  profit  booking  rate  of  each  contract  considers  risks  surrounding  the  ability  to  achieve  the  technical 
requirements, schedule and costs in the initial estimated total costs to complete the contract and variable considerations. Profit 
booking  rates  may  increase  during  the  performance  of  the  contract  if  we  successfully  retire  risks  related  to  the  technical, 

38

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
schedule and cost aspects of the contract, which decreases the estimated total costs to complete the contract. Conversely, our 
profit booking rates may decrease if the estimated total costs to complete the contract increase. All of the estimates are subject 
to change during the performance of the contract and may affect the profit booking rate. For further discussion on fixed-price 
contracts,  see  “Note  1  –  Organization  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements.

We  have  a  number  of  programs  that  are  designated  as  classified  by  the  U.S.  Government  which  cannot  be  specifically 
described. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our consolidated and business segment results and 
are subjected to the same oversight and internal controls as our other programs.

Our net sales are primarily derived from long-term contracts for products and services provided to the U.S. Government 
as well as FMS contracted through the U.S. Government. We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied and 
the  customer  obtains  control  of  the  products  and  services.  For  performance  obligations  to  deliver  products  with  continuous 
transfer  of  control  to  the  customer,  revenue  is  recognized  based  on  the  extent  of  progress  towards  completion  of  the 
performance  obligation,  generally  using  the  percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  measure  of  progress  for  our  contracts 
because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as we incur costs on our contracts. For performance obligations in 
which  control  does  not  continuously  transfer  to  the  customer,  we  recognize  revenue  at  the  point  in  time  in  which  each 
performance obligation is fully satisfied.

Changes  in  net  sales  and  operating  profit  generally  are  expressed  in  terms  of  volume.  Changes  in  volume  refer  to 
increases or decreases in sales or operating profit resulting from varying production activity levels, deliveries or service levels 
on individual contracts. Volume changes in segment operating profit are typically based on the current profit booking rate for a 
particular contract.

Comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margin may be impacted favorably or unfavorably by 
changes in profit booking rates on our contracts. Increases in the profit booking rates, typically referred to as favorable profit 
adjustments, usually relate to revisions in the estimated total costs to fulfill the performance obligations that reflect improved 
conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate, resulting in an increase in 
the  estimated  total  costs  to  fulfill  the  performance  obligations  and  a  reduction  in  the  profit  booking  rate  and  are  typically 
referred to as unfavorable profit adjustments. Increases or decreases in profit booking rates are recognized in the current period 
they are determined and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit and margin may also be 
impacted  favorably  or  unfavorably  by  other  items,  which  may  or  may  not  impact  sales.  Favorable  items  may  include  the 
positive  resolution  of  contractual  matters,  cost  recoveries  on  severance  and  restructuring,  insurance  recoveries  and  gains  on 
sales  of  assets.  Unfavorable  items  may  include  the  adverse  resolution  of  contractual  matters;  supply  chain  disruptions; 
restructuring charges (except for significant severance actions, which are excluded from segment operating results); reserves for 
disputes; certain asset impairments; and losses on sales of certain assets.

Our consolidated net profit booking rate adjustments increased segment operating profit by approximately $1.6 billion in 

2023 and $1.8 billion in 2022. 

We may periodically experience performance issues and could record losses for certain programs. For further discussions, 

see “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for more information.

Aeronautics 

Our Aeronautics business segment is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, 
support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related 
technologies. Aeronautics’ major programs include the F-35 Lightning II, C-130 Hercules, F-16 Fighting Falcon and F-22
Raptor. Aeronautics’ operating results included the following (in millions): 

Net sales
Operating profit

Operating margin
Backlog at year-end

2023
$  27,474 

2,825 

2022
$  26,987 

2,867 

2021
$  26,748 

2,800 

 10.3  %

 10.6  %

 10.5  %

$  60,156 

$  56,630 

$  49,118 

Aeronautics’  net  sales  in  2023 increased $487  million,  or  2%,  compared  to  2022.  Net  sales  increased  by  approximately 
$540  million  for  the  ramp  up  on  classified  programs  and  $230  million  on  the  F-16  program  related  to  the  ramp  up  in 

39

 
 
 
production. These increases were partially offset by lower net sales of $400 million on the F-35 program due to lower volume 
on production contracts partially offset by higher volume on sustainment and development contracts.

Aeronautics’  operating  profit  in  2023 decreased $42  million,  or  1%,  compared  to  2022.  The  decrease  was  primarily 
attributable to lower operating profit of $100 million on the F-22 program due to lower net favorable profit adjustments and $95 
million  on  the  F-35  program  due  to  lower  net  favorable  profit  adjustments  on  production  contracts.  These  decreases  were 
partially offset by higher operating profit of $115 million on classified programs due to higher net favorable profit adjustments 
and  the  impact  of  the  higher  sales  as  discussed  above.  Total  net  profit  booking  rate  adjustments  were  $180  million  lower  in 
2023 compared to 2022.

Backlog

Backlog increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher orders on classified and C-130 programs.

Missiles and Fire Control

Our MFC business segment provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike 
weapon  systems;  logistics;  fire  control  systems;  mission  operations  support,  readiness,  engineering  support  and  integration 
services; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions. MFC’s major programs include PAC-3,
Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD), Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Precision Strike Missile (PrSM), 
Joint  Air-to-Surface  Standoff  Missile  (JASSM),  Long-Range  Anti-Ship  Missile  (LRASM),  Hellfire,  Apache  fire  control 
system, Sniper Advanced Targeting Pod (SNIPER®), Infrared Search and Track (IRST21®), Special Operations Forces Global 
Logistics Support Services (SOF GLSS), hypersonics programs and Javelin. MFC’s operating results included the following (in 
millions):

Net sales

Operating profit
Operating margin

Backlog at year-end

2023

2022

2021

$  11,253 

$  11,317 

$  11,693 

1,541 

1,637 

1,650 

 13.7  %

 14.5  %

 14.1  %

$  32,229 

$  28,735 

$  27,021 

MFC’s net sales in 2023 decreased $64 million, or 1% compared to 2022. Net sales decreased $165 million for integrated 
air  and  missile  defense  programs  due  primarily  to  supplier  cost  timing  on  PAC-3  and  $115  million  for  sensors  and  global 
sustainment programs due primarily to the absence in 2023 of the impact of a favorable profit adjustment on an international 
program  in  2022.  These  decreases  were  partially  offset  by  higher  net  sales  of  $145  million  for  tactical  and  strike  missile 
programs primarily due to production ramp up on JASSM, LRASM, and precision fires programs.

MFC’s operating profit in 2023 decreased $96 million, or 6%, compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily attributable 
to  lower  operating  profit  for  tactical  and  strike  missile  programs  due  to  $45  million  of  losses  recognized  on  a  classified 
program. Total net profit booking rate adjustments were $95 million lower in 2023 compared to 2022.

Backlog

Backlog  increased  in  2023  compared  to  2022  primarily  due  to  higher  orders  on  PAC-3,  LRASM,  JASSM  and  Guided 

Multiple Launch Rocket Systems (GMLRS) programs.

Rotary and Mission Systems 

RMS  designs,  manufactures,  services  and  supports  various  military  and  commercial  helicopters,  surface  ships,  sea  and 
land-based missile defense systems, radar systems, laser systems, sea and air-based mission and combat systems, command and 
control mission solutions, cyber solutions, and simulation and training solutions. RMS’ major programs include Aegis Combat 
System,  Littoral  Combat  Ship  (LCS),  Multi-Mission  Surface  Combatant  (MMSC),  Black  Hawk  and  Seahawk  helicopters, 

40

 
 
 
CH-53K King Stallion heavy lift helicopter, Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH), VH-92A helicopter, and the C2BMC program. 
RMS’ operating results included the following (in millions):

Net sales

Operating profit

Operating margin

Backlog at year-end

2023

2022

2021

$  16,239 

$  16,148 

$  16,789 

1,865 

1,906 

2,030 

 11.5  %

 11.8  %

 12.1  %

$  37,726 

$  34,949 

$  33,700 

RMS’  net  sales  in  2023 increased $91  million,  or  1%,  compared  to  2022.  Higher  net  sales  of  $265  million  on  IWSS 
programs due to higher volume on the Aegis program and new program ramp ups within the radar and laser systems portfolios 
were partially offset by lower net sales of $55 million for Sikorsky helicopter programs due to lower Black Hawk production 
volume.

RMS’ operating profit in 2023 decreased $41 million, or 2%, compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily attributable to 
lower operating profit for Sikorsky helicopter programs primarily due to an unfavorable profit adjustment of $100 million in the 
second  quarter  of  2023  on  the  Canadian  Maritime  Helicopter  Program  (CMHP)  and  lower  Black  Hawk  production  volume. 
This decrease was partially offset by higher operating profit for IWSS programs primarily due to a favorable profit adjustment 
of $65 million in the second quarter of 2023 on an international surveillance and control program, along with higher volume on 
the Aegis program. Total net profit booking rate adjustments were $100 million lower in 2023 compared to 2022.

Backlog

Backlog increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher orders on Sikorsky programs.

Space 

Our Space business segment is engaged in the research and design, development, engineering and production of satellites, 
space transportation systems, and strategic, advanced strike and defensive systems. Space provides network-enabled situational 
awareness  and  integrates  complex  space  and  ground  global  systems  to  help  our  customers  gather,  analyze,  and  securely 
distribute  critical  intelligence  data.  Space  is  also  responsible  for  various  classified  systems  and  services  in  support  of  vital 
national  security  systems.  Space’s  major  programs  include  the  Trident  II  D5  Fleet  Ballistic  Missile  (FBM),  Orion  Multi-
Purpose  Crew  Vehicle  (Orion),  Next  Generation  Overhead  Persistent  Infrared  (Next  Gen  OPIR)  system,  Global  Positioning 
System (GPS) III, hypersonics and transport layer programs and Next Generation Interceptor (NGI). Operating profit for our 
Space business segment includes our share of earnings for our investment in ULA, which provides expendable launch services 
to the U.S. Government and commercial customers. Space’s operating results included the following (in millions):

Net sales
Operating profit
Operating margin
Backlog at year-end

2023
$  12,605 
1,158 

2022
$  11,532 
1,057 

2021
$  11,814 
1,184 

 9.2  %

 9.2  %

 10.0  %

$  30,456 

$  29,684 

$  25,516 

Space’s  net  sales  in  2023 increased  $1.1  billion,  or  9%,  compared  to  2022.  The  increase  was  primarily  attributable  to 
higher net sales of $620 million for strategic and missile defense programs due to ramp up in the NGI development program 
and  higher  volume  in  the FBM program;  and  higher  net  sales  of  $225  million  for  national  security  space  programs  due  to 
development ramp up on Transport Layer and classified programs.

Space’s  operating  profit  in  2023 increased $101  million,  or  10%,  compared  to  2022.  The  increase  was  primarily 
attributable to higher operating profit of $140 million for national security space programs due to the absence of unfavorable 
profit adjustments in 2023 on a ground solutions program and higher net favorable profit adjustments in classified programs. 
This increase was partially offset by $80 million of lower equity earnings resulting from lower launch volume and an increase 
in  new  product  development  costs  at  ULA.  Total  net  profit  booking  rate  adjustments  were  $150  million  higher  in 2023
compared to 2022.

Equity earnings

Total equity earnings (primarily ULA) represented approximately $20 million and $100 million, or 2% and 9%, of Space’s 

operating profit during 2023 and 2022. 

41

 
 
 
 
 
 
Backlog

Backlog increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due higher orders for strategic and missile defense programs for 
NGI  development,  hypersonics,  and  Mk21A,  partially  offset  by  reductions  in  the  National  Security  Space  portfolio  for 
classified and Next Gen OPIR programs.

Liquidity and Cash Flows

As of December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 billion. Our principal source of liquidity is our cash 
from  operations.  However,  we  also  have  access  to  credit  markets,  if  needed,  for  liquidity  or  general  corporate  purposes, 
including  share  repurchases.  This  access  includes  our  $3.0  billion  revolving  credit  facility  or  the  ability  to  issue  commercial 
paper and letters of credit to support customer advance payments and for other trade finance purposes such as guaranteeing our 
performance  on  particular  contracts.  We  believe  our  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  our  expected  cash  flow  generated  from 
operations and our access to credit markets will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements and cash deployment plans over the 
next twelve months and beyond based on our current business plans.

Cash  received  from  customers,  either  from  the  payment  of  invoices  for  work  performed  or  for  advances  from  non-U.S. 
government customers in excess of costs incurred, is our primary source of cash from operations. We generally do not begin 
work  on  contracts  until  funding  is  appropriated  by  the  customer.  However,  from  time  to  time,  we  fund  customer  programs 
ourselves pending government appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on the contract or in advance of a 
contract award, this negatively affects our cash flows and we may be at risk for reimbursement of the excess costs.

Billing timetables and payment terms on our contracts vary based on a number of factors, including the contract type. We 
generally bill and collect cash more frequently under cost-reimbursable contracts, which represented approximately 41% of the 
sales we recorded in 2023, as we are authorized to bill as the costs are incurred. A number of our fixed-price contracts may 
provide for performance-based payments, which allow us to bill and collect cash as we perform on the contract. The amount of 
performance-based  payments  and  the  related  milestones  are  encompassed  in  the  negotiation  of  each  contract.  The  timing  of 
such payments may differ from the timing of the costs incurred related to our contract performance, thereby affecting our cash 
flows.

The U.S. Government has indicated that it would consider progress payments as the baseline for negotiating payment terms 
on fixed-price contracts, rather than performance-based payments. In contrast to negotiated performance-based payment terms, 
progress payment provisions correspond to a percentage of the amount of costs incurred during the performance of the contract 
and are invoiced regularly as costs are incurred. Our cash flows may be affected if the U.S. Government changes its payment 
policies.  The  U.S.  Government  from  time  to  time  withholds  payments  on  certain  of  our  billings  based  on  contract  terms  or 
regulatory provisions. Ultimately, the impact of policy changes or withholding payments may delay the receipt of cash, but the 
cumulative  amount  of  cash  collected  during  the  life  of  the  contract  should  not  vary.  Additionally,  during  the  COVID-19 
pandemic,  we  accelerated  payments  to  the  supply  chain  with  a  focus  on  small  and  at-risk  businesses.  We  will  continue  to 
evaluate the use of accelerated payments on an as needed basis.

We have a balanced cash deployment strategy to invest in our business and key technologies to provide our customers with 
enhanced capabilities, enhance stockholder value, and position ourselves to take advantage of new business opportunities when 
they  arise.  Consistent  with  that  strategy,  we  have  continued  to  invest  in  our  business  and  technologies  through  capital 
expenditures, independent research and development, and selective business acquisitions and investments.

We  continue  to  return  cash  to  stockholders  through  dividends  and  share  repurchases.  In  October  2023,  the  Board  of 
Directors authorized a fourth quarter dividend payment of $3.15 per share, representing an increase of $0.15 per share over the 
prior quarterly dividend payment. The Board of Directors also authorized an increase of $6.0 billion to our share repurchase 
program. As of December 31, 2023, the total remaining authorization for future common share repurchases under our program 
was  $10.0  billion.  We  expect  to  fund  these  future  repurchases  through  a  combination  of  cash  on  hand  and  debt.  The  stock 
repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be amended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. 
The  amount  of  shares  ultimately  purchased  and  the  timing  of  purchases  are  at  the  discretion  of  management  and  subject  to 
compliance with applicable law and regulation.

We  continue  to  actively  manage  our  debt  levels,  including  maturities  and  interest  rates.  We  also  actively  manage  our 
pension  obligations  and  expect  to  continue  to  opportunistically  manage  our  pension  liabilities  through  the  purchase  of  group 
annuity  contracts  or  other  actions  for  portions  of  our  outstanding  defined  benefit  pension  obligations  using  assets  from  the 
pension  trust.  See  “Note  11  –  Postretirement  Benefit  Plans”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for 
additional  information.  Future  pension  risk  transfer  transactions  could  be  significant  and  result  in  us  making  additional 

42

contributions to the pension trust and/or require us to recognize noncash, non-operating pension settlement charges in earnings 
in the applicable reporting period.

The following table provides a summary of our cash flow information followed by a discussion of the key elements 

(in millions): 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Operating activities

Net earnings
Noncash adjustments
Changes in working capital
Other, net

Net cash provided by operating activities
Net cash used for investing activities
Net cash used for financing activities
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Operating Activities

2023
2,547 

$ 

2022
3,604 

$ 

2021
3,160 

$ 

6,920 
1,289 
317 
(606) 
7,920 
(1,694) 
(7,331) 
(1,105) 
1,442 

$ 

5,732 
2,455 
(733) 
348 
7,802 
(1,789) 
(7,070) 
(1,057) 
2,547 

$ 

6,315 
3,109 
9 
(212) 
9,221 
(1,161) 
(7,616) 
444 
3,604 

$ 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $118 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The increase was primarily 
due  to  the  timing  of  production  and  billing  cycles  impacting  receivables  (primarily  the  F-35  program  at  Aeronautics)  and 
contract assets (primarily IWSS programs at RMS), partially offset by timing of cash payments for accounts payable across the 
company. Our federal and foreign income tax payments, net of refunds, were $1.8 billion in 2023, compared to $1.6 billion in 
2022.

Non-GAAP Financial Measure - Free Cash Flow

Free  cash  flow  is  a  non-GAAP  financial  measure  that  we  define  as  cash  from  operations  less  capital  expenditures.  Our 
capital expenditures are comprised of equipment and facilities infrastructure and information technology (inclusive of costs for 
the  development  or  purchase  of  internal-use  software  that  are  capitalized).  We  use  free  cash  flow  to  evaluate  our  business 
performance and overall liquidity, as well as a performance goal in our annual and long-term incentive plans. We believe free 
cash flow is a useful measure for investors because it represents the amount of cash generated from operations after reinvesting 
in the business and that may be available to return to stockholders and creditors (through dividends, stock repurchases and debt 
repayments)  or  available  to  fund  acquisitions  and  other  investments.  The  entire  amount  of  free  cash  flow  is  not  necessarily 
available for discretionary expenditures, however, because it does not account for certain mandatory expenditures, such as the 
repayment  of  maturing  debt  and  pension  contributions.  While  management  believes  that  free  cash  flow  as  a  non-GAAP 
financial  measure may be  useful  in  evaluating  our  financial performance, it should be considered supplemental to, and not a 
substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures 
used by other companies.

The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions):

Cash from operations

Capital expenditures

Free cash flow

Investing Activities

2023
$  7,920 
(1,691) 
$  6,229 

2022
$  7,802 
(1,670) 
$  6,132 

2021
$  9,221 
(1,522) 
$  7,699 

Cash  flows  related  to  investing  activities  primarily  include  capital  expenditures  and  payments  for  acquisitions  and 
divestitures  of  businesses  and  investments.  The  majority  of  our  capital  expenditures  are  for  equipment  and  facilities 
infrastructure  that  generally  are  incurred  to  support  new  and  existing  programs  across  all  of  our  business  segments.  We  also 

43

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incur  capital  expenditures  for  information  technology  to  support  programs  and  general  enterprise  information  technology 
infrastructure, inclusive of costs for the development or purchase of internal-use software.

Net cash used for investing activities decreased $95 million in 2023 compared to 2022.

Financing Activities

Net cash used for financing activities increased $261 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to lower proceeds 
from issuance of long-term debt, partially offset by lower repayments of long-term debt and decreased repurchases of common 
stock. 

We paid dividends totaling $3.1 billion ($12.15 per share) in 2023 and $3.0 billion ($11.40 per share) in 2022. We paid 
quarterly  dividends  of  $3.00  per  share  during  each  of  the  first  three  quarters  of  2023  and  $3.15  per  share  during  the  fourth 
quarter of 2023; $2.80 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2022 and $3.00 per share during the fourth quarter of 
2022.

During 2023, we paid $6.0 billion to repurchase 13.4 million shares of our common stock. See “Note 12 – Stockholders’ 
Equity”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional  information.  During  2022,  we  paid 
$7.9 billion to repurchase 18.3 million shares of our common stock.

During 2023, we received net proceeds of $2.0 billion from issuance of senior unsecured notes. In May 2022, we received 
net proceeds of $2.3 billion from issuance of senior unsecured notes and used the net proceeds from the offering to redeem all 
of  the  outstanding  $500  million  Notes  due  2023,  $750  million  Notes  due  2025  and  used  the  remaining  balance  of  the  net 
proceeds to redeem $1.0 billion of our outstanding $2.0 billion Notes due 2026. In October 2022, we received net proceeds of 
$3.9 billion from issuance of senior unsecured notes and used the net proceeds from the offering to enter into an accelerated 
share repurchase (ASR) agreement to repurchase $4.0 billion of our common stock. See “Note 10 – Debt” included in our Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

During 2023, we repaid $115 million of long-term notes with a fixed interest rate of 7.00% according to their scheduled 

maturities.

Capital Structure, Resources and Other

At December 31, 2023, we held cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 billion that were generally available to fund ordinary 

business operations without significant legal, regulatory, or other restrictions.

Our total outstanding short-term and long-term debt, net of unamortized discounts and issuance costs, was $17.5 billion as 
of December 31, 2023 and is in the form of publicly-issued notes that bear interest at fixed rates. As of December 31, 2023, we 
were in compliance with all covenants contained in our debt and credit agreements. See “Note 10 – Debt” included in our Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our long-term debt and revolving credit facilities.

We actively seek to finance our business in a manner that preserves financial flexibility while minimizing borrowing costs 
to the extent practicable. We review changes in financial market and economic conditions to manage the types, amounts and 
maturities of our indebtedness. We may at times refinance existing indebtedness, vary our mix of variable-rate and fixed-rate 
debt or seek alternative financing sources for our cash and operational needs.

44

Contractual Commitments 

At  December  31,  2023,  we  had  contractual  commitments  to  repay  debt,  make  payments  under  operating  leases,  settle 
obligations related to agreements to purchase goods and services and settle tax and other liabilities. Financing lease obligations 
were not material. Payments due under these obligations and commitments are as follows (in millions):

Total debt
Interest payments
Other liabilities 
Operating lease obligations
Purchase obligations:
Operating activities
Capital expenditures

Total contractual cash obligations

Total

Due Within
 1 Year

18,723  $ 
15,849 
2,372 
1,306 

168 
857 
233 
339 

63,438 
1,011 
102,699  $ 

29,041 
641 
31,279 

$ 

$ 

The  table  above  includes  debt  presented  gross  of  any  unamortized  discounts  and  issuance  costs,  but  excludes  the  net 
unfunded obligation and estimated minimum funding requirements related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. For 
additional  information  about  obligations  and  our  future  minimum  contribution  requirements  for  these  plans,  see  “Note  11  – 
Postretirement Benefit Plans” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts related to other liabilities 
represent the contractual obligations for certain long-term liabilities recorded as of December 31, 2023. Such amounts mainly 
include expected payments under non-qualified pension plans, environmental liabilities and deferred compensation plans. 

Purchase obligations related to operating activities include agreements and contracts that give the supplier recourse to us 
for  cancellation  or  nonperformance  under  the  contract  or  contain  terms  that  would  subject  us  to  liquidated  damages.  Such 
agreements  and  contracts  may,  for  example,  be  related  to  direct  materials,  obligations  to  subcontractors  and  outsourcing 
arrangements.  Total  purchase  obligations  for  operating  activities  in  the  preceding  table  include  approximately  $57.3  billion 
related to contractual commitments entered into as a result of contracts we have with our U.S. Government customers. The U.S. 
Government  generally  would  be  required  to  pay  us  for  any  costs  we  incur  relative  to  these  commitments  if  they  were  to 
terminate the related contracts “for convenience” under the FAR, subject to available funding. This also would be true in cases 
where we perform subcontract work for a prime contractor under a U.S. Government contract. The termination for convenience 
language also may be included in contracts with foreign, state and local governments. We also have contracts with customers 
that do not include termination for convenience provisions, including contracts with commercial customers. 

The majority of our capital expenditures for 2023 and those planned for 2024 are for equipment, facilities infrastructure 
and  information  technology.  The  amounts  above  in  the  table  represent  the  portion  of  expected  capital  expenditures  to  be 
incurred in 2024 and beyond that have been obligated under contracts as of December 31, 2023 and not necessarily total capital 
expenditures for future periods. Expenditures for equipment and facilities infrastructure are generally incurred to support new 
and existing programs across all of our business segments. For example, we have projects underway at Aeronautics to support 
classified development programs and at RMS to support our Sikorsky helicopter programs; and we have projects underway to 
modernize  certain  of  our  facilities.  We  also  incur  capital  expenditures  for  information  technology  to  support  programs  and 
general  enterprise  information  technology  infrastructure,  inclusive  of  costs  for  the  development  or  purchase  of  internal-use 
software.

We  also  may  enter  into  industrial  cooperation  agreements,  sometimes  referred  to  as  offset  agreements,  as  a  condition  to 
obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. These agreements are designed to 
enhance the social and economic environment of the foreign country by requiring the contractor to promote investment in the 
country.  Offset  agreements  may  be  satisfied  through  activities  that  do  not  require  us  to  use  cash,  including  transferring 
technology, providing manufacturing and other consulting support to in-country projects and the purchase by third parties (e.g.,
our  vendors)  of  supplies  from  in-country  vendors.  These  agreements  also  may  be  satisfied  through  our  use  of  cash  for  such 
activities as purchasing supplies from in-country vendors, providing financial support for in-country projects, establishment of 
joint ventures with local companies and building or leasing facilities for in-country operations. We typically do not commit to 
offset  agreements  until  orders  for  our  products  or  services  are  definitive.  The  amounts  ultimately  applied  against  our  offset 
agreements are based on negotiations with the customer and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the 
original amount in the offset agreement. Satisfaction of our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to 
complete  the  contract  and  may  impact  our  sales,  profitability  and  cash  flows.  Our  ability  to  recover  investments  on  our 
consolidated balance sheet that we make to satisfy offset obligations is generally dependent upon the successful operation of 

45

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ventures  that  we  do  not  control  and  may  involve  products  and  services  that  are  dissimilar  to  our  business  activities.  At 
December 31, 2023, the notional value of remaining obligations under our outstanding offset agreements totaled approximately 
$21.3  billion,  which  primarily  relate  to  our  Aeronautics,  MFC  and  RMS  business  segments,  most  of  which  extend  through 
2044.  To  the  extent  we  have  entered  into  purchase  or  other  obligations  at  December  31,  2023  that  also  satisfy  offset 
agreements,  those  amounts  are  included  in  the  contractual  commitments  table  above.  Offset  programs  usually  extend  over 
several years and may provide for penalties, estimated at approximately $2.3 billion at December 31, 2023, in the event we fail 
to  perform  in  accordance  with  offset  requirements.  While  historically  we  have  not  been  required  to  pay  material  penalties, 
resolution of offset requirements are often the result of negotiations and subjective judgments.

We have entered into standby letters of credit and surety bonds issued on our behalf by financial institutions, and we have 
directly issued guarantees to third parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and the guarantee of future 
performance on certain contracts. Letters of credit and surety bonds generally are available for draw down in the event we do 
not perform. In some cases, we may guarantee the contractual performance of third parties such as joint venture partners. At 
December 31, 2023, we had the following outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and third-party guarantees (in millions): 

Standby letters of credit (a)
Surety bonds
Third-party Guarantees
Total commitments

Total      
Commitment
$ 

Less Than
1 Year  

1,234 
354 
229 
1,817 

2,546  $ 
354 
1,000 
3,900  $ 

$ 

(a) Approximately $861 million of standby letters of credit in the “Less Than 1 Year” category are expected to renew for additional periods 

until completion of the contractual obligation.

At December 31, 2023, third-party guarantees totaled $1.0 billion, of which approximately 75% related to guarantees of 
contractual performance of joint ventures to which we currently are or previously were a party. These amounts represent our 
estimate of the maximum amounts we would expect to incur upon the contractual non-performance of the joint venture, joint 
venture  partners  or  divested  businesses.  Generally,  we  also  have  cross-indemnities  in  place  that  may  enable  us  to  recover 
amounts that may be paid on behalf of a joint venture partner.

In  determining  our  exposures,  we  evaluate  the  reputation,  performance  on  contractual  obligations,  technical  capabilities 
and credit quality of our current and former joint venture partners and the transferee under novation agreements, all of which 
include a guarantee as required by the FAR. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, there were no material amounts recorded in our 
financial statements related to third-party guarantees or novation agreements.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates 
and  assumptions  about  future  events  that  affect  the  amounts  reported  in  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  We  employ 
judgment in making our estimates in consideration of historical experience, currently available information and various other 
assumptions  that  we  believe  to  be  reasonable  under  the  circumstances.  Actual  results  could  differ  from  our  estimates  and 
assumptions,  and  any  such  differences  could  be  material  to  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  We  believe  the  following 
accounting policies are critical to the understanding of our consolidated financial statements and require the use of significant 
management judgment in their application. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see “Note 1 – Organization 
and Significant Accounting Policies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition

The  majority  of  our  net  sales  are  generated  from  long-term  contracts  with  the  U.S.  Government  and  international 
customers  (including  FMS  contracted  through  the  U.S.  Government)  for  the  research,  design,  development,  manufacture, 
integration  and  sustainment  of  advanced  technology  systems,  products  and  services.  We  recognize  revenue  as  performance 
obligations  are  satisfied  and  the  customer  obtains  control  of  the  products  and  services.  Substantially  all  of  our  revenue  is 
recognized  over  time  as  we  perform  under  the  contract  because  control  of  the  work  in  process  transfers  continuously  to  the 
customer. For performance obligations to deliver products with continuous control to the customer, revenue is recognized based 
on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation, generally using the percentage of completion cost-
to-cost measure of progress.

Significant estimates and assumptions are made in estimating contract sales, costs, and profit. We estimate profit as the 
difference  between  estimated  revenues  and  total  estimated  costs  to  complete  the  contract.  We  also  estimate  variable 

46

 
 
 
 
consideration at the most likely amount, which is included in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant 
reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. All of the estimates require significant judgement and are subject to 
change  during  the  performance  of  the  contract  and  may  affect  the  profit  booking  rate.  When  estimates  of  total  costs  to  be 
incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of the transaction price, a provision for the entire loss is determined at the contract 
level and is recorded in the period in which the loss is evident, which we refer to as a reach-forward loss.

Comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margin may be impacted favorably or unfavorably by 
changes  in  profit  booking  rates  on  our  contracts.  Segment  operating  profit  and  margin  may  also  be  impacted  favorably  or 
unfavorably  by  other  items,  which  may  or  may  not  impact  sales.  Favorable  items  may  include  the  positive  resolution  of 
contractual  matters,  cost  recoveries  on  severance  and  restructuring,  insurance  recoveries  and  gains  on  sales  of  assets. 
Unfavorable  items  may  include  the  adverse  resolution  of  contractual  matters;  supply  chain  disruptions;  restructuring  charges 
(except  for  significant  severance  actions,  which  are  excluded  from  segment  operating  results);  reserves  for  disputes;  certain 
asset impairments; and losses on sales of certain assets. 

For  the  impacts  of  changes  in  estimates  and  assumptions  on  our  consolidated  financial  statements,  see  “Note  1  – 

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Contract Accounting Considerations

The  majority  of  our  sales  are  driven  by  pricing  based  on  costs  incurred  to  produce  products  or  perform  services  under 
contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost-based pricing is determined under the FAR. The FAR provides guidance on the types 
of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs 
such  as  those  related  to  charitable  contributions,  interest  expense  and  certain  advertising  and  public  relations  activities  are 
unallowable  and,  therefore,  not  recoverable  through  sales.  In  addition,  we  may  enter  into  advance  agreements  with  the  U.S. 
Government  that  address  the  subjects  of  allowability  and  allocability  of  costs  to  contracts  for  specific  matters.  For  example, 
most of the environmental costs we incur for environmental remediation related to sites operated in prior years are allocated to 
our current operations as general and administrative costs under FAR provisions and supporting advance agreements reached 
with the U.S. Government.

We closely monitor compliance with and the consistent application of our critical accounting policies related to contract 
accounting.  Costs  incurred  and  allocated  to  contracts  are  reviewed  for  compliance  with  U.S.  Government  regulations  by  our 
personnel and are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.

Postretirement Benefit Plans

Overview

Many of our employees and retirees participate in qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans, retiree medical 
and  life  insurance  plans  and  other  postemployment  plans  (collectively,  postretirement  benefit  plans  -  see  “Note  11  – 
Postretirement Benefit Plans” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our accrued benefit 
obligations relate to our qualified defined benefit pension and retiree medical and life insurance plans. We recognize on a plan-
by-plan  basis  the  net  funded  status  of  these  postretirement  benefit  plans  under  GAAP  as  either  an  asset  or  a  liability  on  our 
consolidated balance sheets. The GAAP funded status represents the difference between the fair value of each plan’s assets and 
the benefit obligation of the plan. The GAAP benefit obligation represents the present value of the estimated future benefits we 
currently  expect  to  pay  to  plan  participants  based  on  past  service.  The  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  for  salaried 
employees are fully frozen effective January 1, 2020 and our salaried employees participate in a defined contribution retirement 
savings plan.

Similar  to  recent  years,  we  continue  to  take  actions  to  mitigate  the  effect  of  our  defined  benefit  pension  plans  on  our 
financial  results  by  reducing  the  size  and  volatility  of  our  pension  obligations.  From  December  2018  and  inclusive  of  the 
transactions described in “Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit Plans” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
we, through our master retirement trust, have transferred approximately $15.9 billion related to our outstanding defined benefit 
pension obligations to third party insurance companies. This has eliminated pension plan volatility for approximately 109,000 
retirees  and  beneficiaries  and  reduced  our  annually  required  Pension  Benefit  Guarantee  Corporation  (PBGC)  premiums  by 
approximately $79 million per year.

We expect to continue to look for opportunities to manage our pension liabilities through additional pension risk transfer 
transactions in future years. Future transactions could result in a noncash settlement charge to earnings, which could be material 
to a reporting period.

47

Notwithstanding these actions, the impact of our postretirement benefit plans on our earnings may be volatile in that the 
amount of expense we record and the funded status for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to 
year because the calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, actual rates 
of return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity, as well as the timing of cash funding.

Actuarial Assumptions

The  benefit  obligations  and  assets  of  our  postretirement  benefit  plans  are  measured  at  the  end  of  each  year,  or  more 
frequently, upon the occurrence of certain events such as a significant plan amendment (including in connection with a pension 
risk transfer transaction), settlement, or curtailment. The amounts we record are measured using actuarial valuations, which are 
dependent upon key assumptions such as discount rates, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and participant 
longevity. The assumptions we make affect both the calculation of the benefit obligations as of the measurement date and the 
calculation of FAS expense in subsequent periods. When reassessing these assumptions, we consider past and current market 
conditions  and  make  judgments  about  future  market  trends.  We  also  consider  factors  such  as  the  timing  and  amounts  of 
expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants.

We continue to use a single weighted average discount rate approach when calculating our consolidated benefit obligations 
related  to  our  defined  benefit  pension  plans  resulting  in  5.00%  at  December  31,  2023,  compared  to  5.25%  at  December  31, 
2022.  We  utilized  a  single  weighted  average  discount  rate  of  5.00%  when  calculating  our  benefit  obligations  related  to  our 
retiree medical and life insurance plans at December 31, 2023, compared to 5.25% at December 31, 2022. We evaluate several 
data points in order to arrive at an appropriate single weighted average discount rate, including results from cash flow models, 
quoted rates from long-term bond indices and changes in long-term bond rates over the past year. As part of our evaluation, we 
calculate the approximate average yields on corporate bonds rated AA or better selected to match our projected postretirement 
benefit  plan  cash  flows.  The  decrease  in  the  discount  rate  from  December  31,  2022  to  December  31,  2023  resulted  in  an 
increase  in  the  projected  benefit  obligations  of  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  of  approximately  $765  million  at 
December 31, 2023.

We utilized an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 6.50% at both December 31, 2023 and December 31, 
2022. The long-term rate of return assumption represents the expected long-term rate of return on the funds invested or to be 
invested, to provide for the benefits included in the benefit obligations. This assumption is based on several factors including 
historical market index returns, the anticipated long-term allocation of plan assets, the historical return data for the trust funds, 
plan expenses and the potential to outperform market index returns. The difference between the long-term rate of return on plan 
assets assumption we select and the actual return on plan assets in any given year could be impacted by the timing of market 
returns,  in  addition  to  the  timing  of  benefit  payments  and  significant  contributions.  Additionally,  the  difference  between  the 
expected and actual return affects both the funded status of our benefit plans and the calculation of FAS pension expense in 
subsequent periods. Although the actual return in any specific year likely will differ from the assumption, the average expected 
return  over  a  long-term  future  horizon  should  be  approximately  equal  to  the  assumption.  Any  variance  in  a  particular  year 
should  not,  by  itself,  suggest  that  the  assumption  should  be  changed.  Patterns  of  variances  are  reviewed  over  time,  and  then 
combined with expectations for the future. As a result, changes in this assumption are less frequent than changes in the discount 
rate. The actual investment return for our qualified defined benefit plans during 2023 was approximately 7.00%.

Our  stockholders’  equity  has  been  reduced  cumulatively  by  $8.7  billion  from  the  annual  year-end  measurements  of  the 
funded  status  of  postretirement  benefit  plans.  The  cumulative  noncash,  after-tax  reduction  primarily  represents  net  actuarial 
losses resulting from changes in discount rates, investment experience, and updated longevity. A market-related value of our 
plan  assets,  determined  using  actual  asset  gains  or  losses  over  the  prior  three-year  period,  is  used  to  calculate  the  amount  of 
deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. These cumulative actuarial losses will be amortized to expense using the corridor 
method, where gains and losses are recognized to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of plan assets or benefit obligations, 
over an average period of approximately twenty years as of December 31, 2023. During 2023, $149 million of these amounts, 
along with amortization of net prior service credit, were recognized as a component of postretirement benefit plan expense.

The discount rate and long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions we select at the end of each year are based on our 
best estimates and judgment. A change of plus or minus 25 basis points in the 5.00% discount rate assumption at December 31, 
2023, with all other assumptions held constant, would have decreased or increased the amount of the qualified pension benefit 
obligation  we  recorded  at  the  end  of  2023  by  approximately  $765  million,  which  would  result  in  an  after-tax  increase  or 
decrease  in  stockholders’  equity  at  the  end  of  the  year  of  approximately  $600  million.  If  the  5.00%  discount  rate  at 
December 31, 2023 that was used to compute the expected 2024 FAS pension income for our qualified defined benefit pension 
plans had been 25 basis points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, the amount of FAS pension income 
projected  for  2024  would  change  approximately  $5  million.  If  the  6.50%  expected  long-term  rate  of  return  on  plan  assets 
assumption at December 31, 2023 that was used to compute the expected 2024 FAS pension income for our qualified defined 
benefit pension plans had been 25 basis points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, the amount of FAS 

48

pension income projected for 2024 would be higher or lower by approximately $60 million. Each year, differences between the 
actual  and  expected  long-term  rate  of  return  on  plan  assets  impacts  the  measurement  of  the  following  year’s  FAS  pension 
income. Every 100 basis points increase (decrease) in return during 2023 between our actual rate of return of approximately 
7.00% and our expected long-term rate of return increased (decreased) 2024 expected FAS pension income by approximately 
$10 million.

Funding Considerations

We  made  no  contributions  in  2023  and  2022  to  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans.  Funding  of  our  qualified 
defined benefit pension plans is determined in a manner consistent with CAS and in accordance with the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, along with consideration of CAS and Internal Revenue Code rules. Our 
goal has been to fund each of our qualified defined benefit pension plans to a level of at least 80% as determined in accordance 
with  ERISA;  which  may  require  the  use  of  different  assumptions,  such  as  the  discount  rate  and  longevity,  than  used  under 
GAAP. All of our qualified defined benefit pension plans had an ERISA funded status of at least 80% as of both December 31, 
2023 and 2022.

Contributions to our defined benefit pension plans are recovered over time through the pricing of our products and services 
on U.S. Government contracts, including FMS, and are recognized in our cost of sales and net sales. CAS govern the extent to 
which our pension costs are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government, including FMS. Pension 
cost recoveries under CAS occur in different periods from when pension contributions are made in accordance with ERISA.

We recovered $1.7 billion in 2023 and $1.8 billion in 2022 as CAS pension costs. Amounts contributed in excess of the 
CAS pension costs recovered under U.S. Government contracts are considered to be prepayment credits under the CAS rules. 
Our  prepayment  credits  were  approximately  $2.9  billion  and  $4.3  billion  at  December  31,  2023  and  2022.  The  prepayment 
credit balance will increase or decrease based on our actual investment return on plan assets.

Environmental Matters

We  are  a  party  to  various  agreements,  proceedings  and  potential  proceedings  for  environmental  remediation  issues, 
including matters at various sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP). We also are involved in 
environmental  remediation  activities  at  sites  where  formal  agreements  either  do  not  exist  or  do  not  quantify  the  extent  and 
timing  of  our  obligations.  Environmental  remediation  activities  usually  span  many  years,  which  makes  estimating  the  costs 
more judgmental due to, for example, changing remediation technologies. To determine the costs related to clean up sites, we 
have to assess the extent of contamination, effects on natural resources, the appropriate technology to be used to accomplish the 
remediation, and evolving environmental standards.

We  perform  quarterly  reviews  of  environmental  remediation  sites  and  record  liabilities  and  receivables  in  the  period  it 
becomes probable that the liabilities have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated (see the discussion under 
“Environmental Matters” in “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” and “Note 14 – Legal Proceedings, 
Commitments and Contingencies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We consider the above factors 
in  our  quarterly  estimates  of  the  timing  and  amount  of  any  future  costs  that  may  be  required  for  environmental  remediation 
activities, which result in the calculation of a range of estimates for each particular environmental remediation site. We do not 
discount  the  recorded  liabilities,  as  the  amount  and  timing  of  future  cash  payments  are  not  fixed  or  cannot  be  reliably 
determined. Given the required level of judgment and estimation, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded 
if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change (e.g., a change in environmental standards or a change in 
our estimate of the extent of contamination).

Under agreements reached with the U.S. Government, most of the amounts we spend for environmental remediation are 
allocated to our operations as general and administrative costs. Under existing U.S. Government regulations, these and other 
environmental expenditures relating to our U.S. Government business, after deducting any recoveries received from insurance 
or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing prices of our products and services. As a result, most of the expenditures we incur 
are included in our net sales and cost of sales according to U.S. Government agreement or regulation, regardless of the contract 
form  (e.g.  cost-reimbursable,  fixed-price).  We  continually  evaluate  the  recoverability  of  our  assets  for  the  portion  of 
environmental costs that are probable of future recovery by assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our 
U.S. Government business base and contract mix, our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs, and efforts by some 
U.S. Government representatives to limit such reimbursement.

As  disclosed  above,  we  may  record  changes  in  the  amount  of  environmental  remediation  liabilities  as  a  result  of  our 
quarterly  reviews  of  the  status  of  our  environmental  remediation  sites,  which  would  result  in  a  change  to  the  corresponding 
amount that is probable of future recovery and a charge to earnings. For example, if we were to determine that the liabilities 

49

should  be  increased  by  $100  million,  the  corresponding  amount  that  is  probable  of  future  recovery  would  be  increased  by 
approximately $89 million, with the remainder recorded as a charge to earnings. This allocation is determined annually, based 
upon our existing and projected business activities with the U.S. Government.

We cannot reasonably determine the extent of our financial exposure at all environmental remediation sites with which we 
are  involved.  There  are  a  number  of  former  operating  facilities  we  are  monitoring  or  investigating  for  potential  future 
environmental remediation. In some cases, although a loss may be probable, it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate 
the amount of any obligation for remediation activities because of uncertainties (e.g., assessing the extent of the contamination). 
During any particular quarter, such uncertainties may be resolved, allowing us to estimate and recognize the initial liability to 
remediate a particular former operating site. The amount of the liability could be material. Upon recognition of the liability, a 
portion  will  be  recognized  as  a  receivable  with  the  remainder  charged  to  earnings,  which  may  have  a  material  effect  in  any 
particular interim reporting period.

If we are ultimately found to have liability at those sites where we have been designated a PRP, we expect that the actual 
costs of environmental remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be 
responsible parties are strictly liable for site remediation and usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the 
costs and expenses for environmental investigation and remediation. Under existing environmental laws, responsible parties are 
jointly and severally liable and, therefore, we are potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. In the unlikely 
event that we were required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue 
rights of cost recovery or contribution from the other PRPs. The amounts we record do not reflect the fact that we may recover 
some of the environmental costs we have incurred through insurance or from other PRPs, which we are required to pursue by 
agreement and U.S. Government regulation.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the acquisition method of accounting at their estimated 
fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying identifiable 
net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets from acquired businesses are recognized at fair value on the acquisition date 
and  consist  of  customer  programs,  trademarks,  customer  relationships,  technology  and  other  intangible  assets.  Customer 
programs include values assigned to major programs of acquired businesses and represent the aggregate value associated with 
the  customer  relationships,  contracts,  technology  and  trademarks  underlying  the  associated  program.  Intangible  assets  are 
amortized over a period of expected cash flows used to measure fair value, which typically ranges from five to 20 years.

Our  goodwill  balance  was  $10.8  billion  at  both  December  31,  2023  and  2022.  We  perform  an  impairment  test  of  our 
goodwill at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. Such events or changes in circumstances may include a significant deterioration in 
overall economic conditions, changes in the business climate of our industry, a decline in our market capitalization, operating 
performance indicators, competition, reorganizations of our business, U.S. Government budget restrictions or the disposal of all 
or a portion of a reporting unit. Our goodwill has been allocated to and is tested for impairment at a level referred to as the 
reporting unit, which is our business segment level or a level below the business segment. The level at which we test goodwill 
for impairment requires us to determine whether the operations below the business segment constitute a self-sustaining business 
for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results.

We  may  use  both  qualitative  and  quantitative  approaches  when  testing  goodwill  for  impairment.  For  selected  reporting 
units  where  we  use  the  qualitative  approach,  we  perform  a  qualitative  evaluation  of  events  and  circumstances  impacting  the 
reporting unit to determine the likelihood of goodwill impairment. Based on that qualitative evaluation, if we determine it is 
more  likely  than  not  that  the  fair  value  of  a  reporting  unit  exceeds  its  carrying  amount,  no  further  evaluation  is  necessary. 
Otherwise, we perform a quantitative impairment test. We perform quantitative tests for most reporting units at least once every 
three years. However, for certain reporting units we may perform a quantitative impairment test every year.

To perform the quantitative impairment test, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including 
goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, a goodwill impairment loss is recognized in an 
amount equal to that excess. We generally estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of a discounted 
cash flow (DCF) analysis and market-based valuation methodologies such as comparable public company trading values and 
values observed in recent business acquisitions. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including 
the  amount  and  timing  of  expected  future  cash  flows,  long-term  growth  rates,  discount  rates  and  relevant  comparable  public 
company earnings multiples and relevant transaction multiples. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis are based on our 
best  estimate  of  future  sales,  earnings  and  cash  flows  after  considering  factors  such  as  general  market  conditions,  U.S. 
Government  budgets,  existing  firm  orders,  expected  future  orders,  contracts  with  suppliers,  labor  agreements,  changes  in 

50

working capital, long term business plans and recent operating performance. The discount rates utilized in the DCF analysis are 
based on the respective reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital, which takes into account the relative weights of each 
component  of  capital  structure  (equity  and  debt)  and  represents  the  expected  cost  of  new  capital,  adjusted  as  appropriate  to 
consider  the  risk  inherent  in  future  cash  flows  of  the  respective  reporting  unit.  The  carrying  value  of  each  reporting  unit 
includes the assets and liabilities employed in its operations, goodwill and allocations of amounts held at the business segment 
and corporate levels.

In  the  fourth  quarter  of  2023,  we  performed  our  annual  goodwill  impairment  test  for  each  of  our  reporting  units. 
Impairment assessments inherently involve management judgments regarding a number of assumptions such as those described 
above. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of a reporting unit’s fair value and the relative size of our recorded 
goodwill, differences in assumptions could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting 
units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. Additionally, acquired intangible assets deemed to 
have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing or more frequently if events or change in 
circumstance indicate that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired. This testing compares carrying value to fair value 
and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we performed 
our annual impairment tests, and the results of those tests indicated no impairment existed. 

Finite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their applicable useful lives, ranging from five to 20 years, based on 
the nature of the asset and the underlying pattern of economic benefit as reflected by future net cash inflows. We perform an 
impairment test of finite-lived intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may be 
impaired. If events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of a finite-lived intangible may be impaired, the sum 
of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset group would be compared to the asset group’s 
carrying value. If the asset group’s carrying amount exceed the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, we would determine 
the fair value of the asset group and record an impairment loss in net earnings.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” included in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(under the caption “Recent Accounting Pronouncements”).

51

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of U.S. and international financial institutions. We believe 
that  they  provide  us  with  sufficient  access  to  the  general  and  trade  credit  we  require  to  conduct  our  business.  We  closely 
monitor  the  financial  market  environment  and  actively  manage  counterparty  exposure  to  minimize  the  potential  impact  from 
adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources. 

Our  main  exposure  to  market  risk  relates  to  interest  rates,  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  and  market  prices  on  certain 
equity securities. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt and 
commercial paper, if issued. The estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $18.5 billion at December 31, 2023 and the 
outstanding  principal  amount  of  debt,  including  short-term  and  long-term  debt,  was  $18.7  billion,  excluding  unamortized 
discounts and issuance costs of $1.3 billion. A 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the 
fair value of our outstanding debt at December 31, 2023.

We  use  derivative  instruments  principally  to  reduce  our  exposure  to  market  risks  from  changes  in  foreign  currency 
exchange  rates  and  interest  rates.  We  do  not  enter  into  or  hold  derivative  instruments  for  speculative  trading  purposes.  We 
transact  business  globally  and  are  subject  to  risks  associated  with  changing  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  We  enter  into 
foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. 
Our  most  significant  foreign  currency  exposures  relate  to  the  British  pound  sterling,  the  euro,  the  Canadian  dollar,  the 
Australian dollar, the Norwegian kroner and the Polish zloty. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in 
order to minimize fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We 
designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. We also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily 
through  our  borrowing  activities.  For  fixed  rate  borrowings,  we  may  use  variable  interest  rate  swaps,  effectively  converting 
fixed  rate  borrowings  to  variable  rate  borrowings  in  order  to  hedge  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  debt.  These  swaps  are 
designated  as  fair  value  hedges.  For  variable  rate  borrowings,  we  may  use  fixed  interest  rate  swaps,  effectively  converting 
variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. These 
swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and 
do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to minimize certain economic exposures.

The classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended 
use  of  the  derivative  and  its  resulting  designation.  Adjustments  to  reflect  changes  in  fair  values  of  derivatives  attributable  to 
highly effective hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or 
reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are not highly effective, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. The 
aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps was $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. The 
aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $6.5 billion and 
$7.3 billion. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (see “Note 15 – 
Fair  Value  Measurements”  included  in  our  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements).  A  10%  unfavorable  exchange  rate 
movement of our foreign currency contracts would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts 
or  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  Additionally,  as  we  enter  into  foreign  currency  contracts  to  hedge  foreign  currency 
exposure  on  underlying  transactions  we  believe  that  any  movement  on  our  foreign  currency  contracts  would  be  offset  by 
movement on the underlying transactions and, therefore, when taken together do not create material risk.

We  evaluate  the  credit  quality  of  potential  counterparties  to  derivative  transactions  and  only  enter  into  agreements  with 
those  deemed  to  have  acceptable  credit  risk  at  the  time  the  agreements  are  executed.  Our  foreign  currency  exchange  hedge 
portfolio  is  diversified  across  many  banks.  We  regularly  monitor  changes  to  counterparty  credit  quality  as  well  as  our 
concentration  of  credit  exposure  to  individual  counterparties.  We  do  not  hold  or  issue  derivative  financial  instruments  for 
trading or speculative purposes. 

We maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. As 
of December 31, 2023, investments in the trust totaled $1.8 billion and are reflected at fair value on our consolidated balance 
sheet in other noncurrent assets. The trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are 
exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. A portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation 
plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. 
Changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. Both 
the  change  in  the  fair  value  of  the  trust  and  the  change  in  the  value  of  the  liabilities  are  recognized  on  our  consolidated 
statements of earnings in other unallocated, net and were not material for the year ended December 31, 2023.

52

ITEM 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Lockheed Martin Corporation

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lockheed Martin Corporation (the Corporation) as of 
December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity 
for  each  of  the  three  years  in  the  period  ended  December  31,  2023,  and  the  related  notes  (collectively  referred  to  as  the 
“consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of the Corporation at December 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for 
each  of  the  three  years  in  the  period  ended  December  31,  2023,  in  conformity  with  U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting 
principles.

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States)  (PCAOB),  the  Corporation’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of  December  31,  2023,  based  on  criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated January 23, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Corporation’s  management.  Our  responsibility  is  to  express  an 
opinion  on  the  Corporation’s  financial  statements  based  on  our  audits.  We  are  a  public  accounting  firm  registered  with  the 
PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws 
and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  PCAOB.  Those  standards  require  that  we  plan  and 
perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  financial  statements  are  free  of  material  misstatement, 
whether  due  to  error  or  fraud.  Our  audits  included  performing  procedures  to  assess  the  risks  of  material  misstatement  of  the 
financial  statements,  whether  due  to  error  or  fraud,  and  performing  procedures  that  respond  to  those  risks.  Such  procedures 
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also 
included  evaluating  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating  the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that 
were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that 
are  material  to  the  financial  statements  and  (2)  involved  our  especially  challenging,  subjective  or  complex  judgments.  The 
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as 
a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit 
matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

53

 
Description of 
the Matter

Revenue recognition based on the percentage of completion method

For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Corporation recorded net sales of $67.6 billion. As more fully 
described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation generates the majority of its 
net  sales  from  long-term  contracts  with  its  customers  whereby  substantially  all  of  the  Corporation’s 
revenue  is  recognized  over  time  using  the  percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  measure  of  progress.  
Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost measure of progress, the Corporation measures progress 
towards completion based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated total costs to complete the 
performance obligation(s) (referred to as the estimate-at-completion analysis).  The Corporation estimates 
profit  on  these  contracts  as  the  difference  between  total  estimated  revenues  and  total  estimated  cost  at 
completion. 

The  percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  method  requires  management  to  make  significant  estimates 
and assumptions to estimate contract sales and costs associated with its contracts with customers.  At the 
outset  of  a  long-term  contract,  the  Corporation  identifies  risks  to  the  achievement  of  the  technical, 
schedule  and  cost  aspects  of  the  contract.  Throughout  the  contract  life  cycle,  the  Corporation  monitors 
and assesses the effects of those risks on its estimates of sales and total costs to complete the contract.  
Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if the Corporation successfully 
retires risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract, which would decrease 
the estimated total costs to complete the contract.  Conversely, the profit booking rates may decrease if 
the estimated total costs to complete the contract increase.  Changes to the profit booking rates resulting 
from changes in estimates could have a material effect on the Corporation’s results of operations.  

Auditing the Corporation’s estimate-at-completion analyses used in its revenue recognition process was 
complex due to the judgment involved in evaluating the significant estimates and assumptions made by 
management  in  the  initial  development  and  subsequent  updates  to  the  Corporation’s  estimate-at-
completion analyses. The estimate-at-completion analyses of each contract consider risks surrounding the 
Corporation’s ability to achieve the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract.

How We 
Addressed the 
Matter in Our 
Audit

We  obtained  an  understanding,  evaluated  the  design  and  tested  the  operating  effectiveness  of  relevant 
internal  controls  over  the  Corporation’s  revenue  recognition  process.    For  example,  we  tested  internal 
controls  over  management’s  review  of  the  estimate-at-completion  analyses  and  the  significant 
assumptions  underlying  the  estimated  contract  value  and  estimated  total  costs  to  complete.    We  also 
tested  internal  controls  that  management  executes  which  are  designed  to  validate  the  data  used  in  the 
estimate-at-completion analyses was complete and accurate.

To test the accuracy of the Corporation’s estimate-at-completion analyses, our audit procedures included, 
among others, comparing estimates of labor costs, subcontractor costs, and materials to historical results 
of similar contracts, and agreeing the key terms to contract documentation and management’s estimates.  
We  also  performed  sensitivity  analyses  over  the  significant  assumptions  to  evaluate  the  change  in  the 
profit booking rates resulting from changes in the assumptions.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Obligation

Description of 
the Matter

At December 31, 2023, the Corporation’s aggregate obligation for its qualified defined benefit pension 
plans  was  $29.0  billion  and  exceeded  the  gross  fair  value  of  the  related  plan  assets  of  $22.8  billion, 
resulting in a net unfunded qualified defined benefit pension obligation of $6.2 billion. As explained in 
Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation remeasures the qualified defined benefit 
pension assets and obligations at the end of each year or more frequently upon the occurrence of certain 
events. The amounts are measured using actuarial valuations, which depend on key assumptions such as 
the discount rate.

Auditing the defined benefit pension obligation was complex and required the involvement of specialists 
as  a  result  of  the  judgmental  nature  of  the  actuarial  assumptions  such  as  the  discount  rate  used  in  the 
measurement  process.  The  discount  rate  assumption  has  a  significant  effect  on  the  measurement  of  the 
projected benefit obligation.

54

How We 
Addressed the 
Matter in Our 
Audit

We  obtained  an  understanding,  evaluated  the  design  and  tested  the  operating  effectiveness  of  relevant 
internal controls over management’s measurement and valuation of the defined benefit pension obligation 
calculations.    For  example,  we  tested  the  internal  controls  over  management’s  review  of  the  defined 
benefit pension obligation calculations, the significant actuarial assumptions and the data inputs provided 
to the actuaries.

To test the defined benefit pension obligation, our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating 
the methodology used, the significant actuarial assumptions described above and the underlying data used 
by the Corporation.  We compared the actuarial assumptions used by management to historical trends and 
evaluated  the  change  in  the  defined  benefit  pension  obligation  from  prior  year  due  to  the  change  in 
service  cost,  interest  cost,  benefit  payments,  settlements,  actuarial  gains  and  losses,  longevity 
assumptions  and  plan  amendments.    In  addition,  we  involved  our  actuarial  specialists  to  assist  in 
evaluating management’s methodology for determining the discount rate that considers the maturity and 
duration of the benefit payments and is used to measure the defined benefit pension obligation.  As part 
of this assessment, we compared the projected cash flows to the prior year and compared the current year 
benefits paid to the prior year projected cash flows. Lastly, we also tested the completeness and accuracy 
of the underlying data, including the participant data provided to the Corporation’s actuarial specialists.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Corporation’s auditor since 1994.

Tysons, Virginia
January 23, 2024

55

Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(in millions, except per share data)

Years Ended December 31,

2023

2022

2021

$  56,265  $  55,466  $  56,435 
10,609 
67,044 

11,306 
67,571 

10,518 
65,984 

(50,206)   
(10,027)   
(92)   

1,233 
(59,092)   
8,479 
28 
8,507 
(916)   
443 
64 
8,098 
(1,178)   
6,920  $ 

(49,357)   
(9,252)   
(100)   
1,012 
(57,697)   
8,287 
61 
8,348 
(623)   
(971)   
(74)   

6,680 
(948)   
5,732  $ 

(50,017) 
(9,434) 
(36) 
1,504 
(57,983) 
9,061 
62 
9,123 
(569) 
(1,292) 
288 
7,550 
(1,235) 
6,315 

27.65  $ 
27.55  $ 

21.74  $ 
21.66  $ 

22.85 
22.76 

$ 

$ 
$ 

Net sales
Products
Services

Total net sales

Cost of sales
Products
Services
Severance and other charges
Other unallocated, net
Total cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income, net
Operating profit
Interest expense
Non-service FAS pension income (expense)
Other non-operating income (expense), net
Earnings before income taxes
Income tax expense
Net earnings

Earnings per common share
Basic
Diluted

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

56

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(in millions)

Net earnings
Other comprehensive income, net of tax

Years Ended December 31,

2023
6,920  $ 

2022
5,732  $ 

2021
6,315 

$ 

Postretirement benefit plans
Net actuarial (loss) gain recognized due to plan remeasurements, net of tax of $181 

million in 2023, $518 million in 2022 and $925 million in 2021

Amortization of actuarial losses and prior service credits, net of tax of $40 million

in 2023, $18 million in 2022 and $130 million in 2021

Pension settlement charge, net of tax of $314 million in 2022 and $355 million in 

2021

Other, net, net of tax of $6 million in 2023, $2 million in 2022 and $11 million in 
2021

Other comprehensive income, net of tax

Comprehensive income

(689)   

1,873 

3,404 

(149)   

69 

477 

— 

1,156 

1,310 

58 
(780)   
6,140  $ 

(115)   
(76) 
5,115 
2,983 
8,715  $  11,430 

$ 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

57

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions, except par value)

December 31,
2023

2022

$ 

1,442  $ 
2,132 
13,183 
3,132 
632 
20,521 
8,370 
10,799 
2,212 
2,953 
7,601 

2,547 
2,505 
12,318 
3,088 
533 
20,991 
7,975 
10,780 
2,459 
3,744 
6,931 
$  52,456  $  52,880 

$ 

2,312  $ 
3,133 
9,190 
168 
2,134 
16,937 
17,291 
6,162 
5,231 
45,621 

2,117 
3,075 
8,488 
118 
2,089 
15,887 
15,429 
5,472 
6,826 
43,614 

240 
— 
15,398 
(8,803)   
6,835 

254 
92 
16,943 
(8,023) 
9,266 
$  52,456  $  52,880 

Assets
Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents
Receivables, net
Contract assets
Inventories
Other current assets

Total current assets

Property, plant and equipment, net
Goodwill
Intangible assets, net
Deferred income taxes
Other noncurrent assets

Total assets
Liabilities and equity
Current liabilities

Accounts payable
Salaries, benefits and payroll taxes
Contract liabilities
Current maturities of long-term debt
Other current liabilities

Total current liabilities

Long-term debt, net
Accrued pension liabilities
Other noncurrent liabilities

Total liabilities
Stockholders’ equity

Common stock, $1 par value per share
Additional paid-in capital
Retained earnings
Accumulated other comprehensive loss

Total stockholders’ equity 
Total liabilities and equity

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

58

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,

2023

2022

2021

$ 

6,920  $ 

5,732  $ 

6,315 

1,430 
265 

(498)   
— 
92 

373 
(865)   
(44)   
151 
702 
(133)   
(378)   
(95)   

7,920 

1,404 
238 

(757)   
1,470 
100 

(542)   
(1,739)   
(107)   
1,274 
381 
148 
(412)   
612 
7,802 

1,364 
227 

(183) 
1,665 
36 

15 
(1,034) 
564 
(98) 
562 
45 
(267) 
10 
9,221 

(1,691)   
(3)   
(1,694)   

(1,670)   
(119)   
(1,789)   

(1,522) 
361 
(1,161) 

1,975 
(115)   
(6,000)   
(3,056)   
(135)   
(7,331)   
(1,105)   
2,547 
1,442  $ 

6,211 
(2,250)   
(7,900)   
(3,016)   
(115)   
(7,070)   
(1,057)   
3,604 
2,547  $ 

— 
(500) 
(4,087) 
(2,940) 
(89) 
(7,616) 
444 
3,160 
3,604 

$ 

Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in millions)

Operating activities
Net earnings
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities

Depreciation and amortization
Stock-based compensation
Deferred income taxes

Pension settlement charge
Severance and other charges
Changes in:

Receivables, net
Contract assets
Inventories
Accounts payable
Contract liabilities
Income taxes

Qualified defined benefit pension plans
Other, net

Net cash provided by operating activities

Investing activities
Capital expenditures
Other, net

Net cash used for investing activities

Financing activities
Issuance of long-term debt, net of related costs
Repayments of long-term debt
Repurchases of common stock
Dividends paid
Other, net

Net cash used for financing activities

Net change in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

59

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Equity
(in millions, except per share data)

Common 
Stock

Additional
  Paid-In
Capital
221 
— 

279  $ 
—   

Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive 
Loss
(16,121) 
— 

Retained
Earnings
$ 

21,636  $ 
6,315   

Noncontrolling
Interests in
Subsidiary
23 
— 

$ 

Total
Equity
$  6,038 
6,315 

— 
— 

— 

— 

5,115 
(4,087) 

(2,944) 

545 

(23) 
— 
— 

(23) 
$  10,959 
5,732 

— 
— 

— 

— 
— 
— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

2,983 
(7,900) 

(3,010) 

502 
$  9,266 
6,920 

(780) 

(6,000) 

(3,051) 

480 

$  6,835 

Balance at December 31, 2020
Net earnings
Other comprehensive loss, net 

$ 

of tax

Repurchases of common stock
Dividends declared ($10.60 per 

share)

Stock-based awards, ESOP 

activity and other

Net decrease in noncontrolling 

interests in subsidiary

Balance at December 31, 2021
Net earnings
Other comprehensive income, 

net of tax

Repurchases of common stock
Dividends declared ($11.40 per 

share)

Stock-based awards, ESOP 

activity and other

Balance at December 31, 2022
Net earnings
Other comprehensive income, 

net of tax

Repurchases of common stock

Dividends declared ($12.15 per 

share)

Stock-based awards, ESOP 

activity and other

$ 

$ 

—   
(9)   

—   

— 
(671) 

—   
(3,407)   

— 

(2,944)   

1   

544 

—   

5,115 
— 

— 

— 

—   
271  $ 
—   

—   
(18)   

—   

1   
254  $ 
—   

—   

(15)   

— 
94 
— 

$ 

—   
21,600  $ 
5,732   

— 
(11,006) 
— 

— 
(503) 

—   
(7,379)   

2,983 
— 

— 

501 
92 
— 

— 

(571) 

(3,010)   

— 

$ 

—   
16,943  $ 
6,920   

— 
(8,023) 
— 

—   

(780) 

(5,414)   

—   

— 

(3,051)   

1   

479 

—   

— 

— 

— 

Total
Stockholders’
Equity

$ 

$ 

$ 

6,015 
6,315 

5,115 
(4,087) 

(2,944) 

545 

— 
10,959 
5,732 

2,983 
(7,900) 

(3,010) 

502 
9,266 
6,920 

(780) 

(6,000) 

(3,051) 

480 

$ 

$ 

Balance at December 31, 2023

$ 

240  $ 

— 

$ 

15,398  $ 

(8,803) 

$ 

6,835 

$ 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

60

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization – We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, 
manufacture,  integration  and  sustainment  of  advanced  technology  systems,  products  and  services.  We  also  provide  a  broad 
range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics, system integration and cybersecurity services. We serve both 
U.S.  and  international  customers  with  products  and  services  that  have  defense,  civil  and  commercial  applications,  with  our 
principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. As described in “Note 3 – Information on Business Segments”, we 
operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, MFC, RMS and Space.

Basis  of  presentation  –  These  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the  accounts  of  subsidiaries  we  control  and 
variable  interest  entities  if  we  are  the  primary  beneficiary.  We  eliminate  intercompany  balances  and  transactions  in 
consolidation. We classify certain assets and liabilities as current utilizing the duration of the related contract or program as our 
operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year. This primarily impacts receivables, contract assets, inventories, and 
contract liabilities. We classify all other assets and liabilities based on whether the asset will be realized or the liability will be 
paid within one year.

Effective  January  1,  2023,  we  no  longer  consider  amortization  expense  related  to  purchased  intangible  assets  when 
evaluating the operating performance of our business segments. As a result, intangible asset amortization expense, which was 
previously  included  in  segment  operating  profit,  is  now  reported  in  unallocated  corporate  expense  within  total  consolidated 
operating  profit.  This  change  has  no  impact  on  our  consolidated  operating  results.  Management  believes  this  updated 
presentation better aligns with how the business is viewed and managed and will provide better insights into business segment 
performance.  This  change  has  been  applied  to  the  amounts  in  this  Form  10-K,  including  amounts  for  2022  and  2021.  See 
“Note 3 – Information on Business Segments” for further information regarding the impact of this change on our current and 
prior period segment operating profit.

Use  of  estimates  –  We  prepare  our  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  U.S.  generally  accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP). In doing so, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported 
in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes.  We  base  these  estimates  on  historical  experience  and  on 
various  other  assumptions  that  we  believe  are  reasonable  under  the  circumstances,  the  results  of  which  form  the  basis  for 
making  judgments  about  the  carrying  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  that  are  not  readily  apparent  from  other  sources.  Our 
actual results may differ materially from these estimates. Significant estimates inherent in the preparation of our consolidated 
financial  statements  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  accounting  for  sales  and  cost  recognition;  postretirement  benefit  plans; 
environmental  liabilities  and  assets  for  the  portion  of  environmental  costs  that  are  probable  of  future  recovery;  evaluation  of 
goodwill,  intangible  assets,  investments  and  other  assets  for  impairment;  income  taxes  including  deferred  income  taxes;  fair 
value measurements; and contingencies.

Revenue Recognition – The majority of our net sales are generated from long-term contracts with the U.S. Government 
and international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) for the research, 
design,  development,  manufacture,  integration  and  sustainment  of  advanced  technology  systems,  products  and  services.  We 
account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment 
terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. For certain contracts 
that meet the foregoing requirements, primarily international direct commercial sale contracts, we are required to obtain certain 
regulatory approvals. In these cases, we recognize revenue when it is probable that we will receive regulatory approvals based 
upon  all  known  facts  and  circumstances.  We  provide  our  products  and  services  under  fixed-price  and  cost-reimbursable 
contracts.

Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the specified work for a pre-determined price. To the extent our actual 
costs vary from the estimates upon which the price was negotiated, we will generate more or less profit or could incur a loss. 
Some  fixed-price  contracts  have  a  performance-based  component  under  which  we  may  earn  incentive  payments  or  incur 
financial penalties based on our performance.

Cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the payment of allowable costs incurred during performance of the contract plus a 
fee  up  to  a  ceiling  based  on  the  amount  that  has  been  funded.  Typically,  we  enter  into  three  types  of  cost-reimbursable 
contracts:  cost-plus-award-fee,  cost-plus-incentive-fee,  and  cost-plus-fixed-fee.  Cost-plus-award-fee  contracts  provide  for  an 
award fee that varies within specified limits based on the customer’s assessment of our performance against a predetermined set 
of criteria, such as targets based on cost, quality, technical and schedule criteria. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts provide for 

61

reimbursement  of  costs  plus  a  fee,  which  is  adjusted  by  a  formula  based  on  the  relationship  of  total  allowable  costs  to  total 
target costs (i.e., incentive based on cost) or reimbursement of costs plus an incentive to exceed stated performance targets (i.e., 
incentive  based  on  performance).  Cost-plus-fixed-fee  contracts  provide  a  fixed  fee  that  is  negotiated  at  the  inception  of  the 
contract and does not vary with actual costs.

We assess each contract at its inception to determine whether it should be combined with other contracts. When making 
this determination, we consider factors such as whether two or more contracts were negotiated and executed at or near the same 
time or were negotiated with an overall profit objective. If combined, we treat the combined contracts as a single contract for 
revenue recognition purposes.

We evaluate the products or services promised in each contract at inception to determine whether the contract should be 
accounted  for  as  having  one  or  more  performance  obligations.  The  products  and  services  in  our  contracts  are  typically  not 
distinct  from  one  another  due  to  their  complex  relationships  and  the  significant  contract  management  functions  required  to 
perform  under  the  contract.  Accordingly,  our  contracts  are  typically  accounted  for  as  one  performance  obligation.  In  limited 
cases, our contracts have more than one distinct performance obligation, which occurs when we perform activities that are not 
highly  complex  or  interrelated  or  involve  different  product  lifecycles.  Significant  judgment  is  required  in  determining 
performance  obligations,  and  these  decisions  could  change the amount of  revenue and profit recorded in a given period. We 
classify net sales as products or services on our consolidated statements of earnings based on the predominant attributes of the 
performance obligations.

We determine the transaction price for each contract based on the consideration we expect to receive for the products or 
services being provided under the contract. For contracts where a portion of the price may vary (e.g. awards, incentive fees and 
claims), we estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount, which is included in the transaction price to the extent it 
is  probable  that  a  significant  reversal  of  cumulative  revenue  recognized  will  not  occur.  We  analyze  the  risk  of  a  significant 
revenue reversal and if necessary constrain the amount of variable consideration recognized in order to mitigate this risk.

At the inception of a contract we estimate the transaction price based on our current rights and do not contemplate future 
modifications (including unexercised options) or follow-on contracts until they become legally enforceable. Contracts are often 
subsequently  modified  to  include  changes  in  specifications,  requirements  or  price,  which  may  create  new  or  change  existing 
enforceable  rights  and  obligations.  Depending  on  the  nature  of  the  modification,  we  consider  whether  to  account  for  the 
modification as an adjustment to the existing contract or as a separate contract. Generally, modifications to our contracts are not 
distinct from the existing contract due to the significant integration and interrelated tasks provided in the context of the contract. 
Therefore,  such  modifications  are  accounted  for  as  if  they  were  part  of  the  existing  contract  and  recognized  as  a  cumulative 
adjustment to revenue.

For  contracts  with  multiple  performance  obligations,  we  allocate  the  transaction  price  to  each  performance  obligation 
based  on  the  estimated  standalone  selling  price  of  the  product  or  service  underlying  each  performance  obligation.  The 
standalone selling price represents the amount we would sell the product or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not 
bundled with any other products or services). Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including FMS contracts, are subject to 
the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) and the price is typically based on estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit 
margin.  As  a  result  of  these  regulations,  the  standalone  selling  price  of  products  or  services  in  our  contracts  with  the  U.S. 
Government and FMS contracts are typically equal to the selling price stated in the contract.

For non-U.S. government contracts with multiple performance obligations, we evaluate whether the stated selling prices 
for  the  products  or  services  represent  their  standalone  selling  prices.  We  primarily  sell  customized  solutions  unique  to  a 
customer’s  specifications.  When  it  is  necessary  to  allocate  the  transaction  price  to  multiple  performance  obligations,  we 
typically  use  the  expected  cost  plus  a  reasonable  profit  margin  to  estimate  the  standalone  selling  price  of  each  product  or 
service. We occasionally sell standard products or services with observable standalone sales transactions. In these situations, the 
observable standalone sales transactions are used to determine the standalone selling price.

We  recognize  revenue  as  performance  obligations  are  satisfied  and  the  customer  obtains  control  of  the  products  and 
services. In determining when performance obligations are satisfied, we consider factors such as contract terms, payment terms 
and whether there is an alternative future use of the product or service. Substantially all of our revenue is recognized over time 
as  we  perform  under  the  contract  because  control  of  the  work  in  process  transfers  continuously  to  the  customer.  For  most 
contracts  with  the  U.S.  Government  and  FMS  contracts,  this  continuous  transfer  of  control  of  the  work  in  process  to  the 
customer is supported by clauses in the contract that give the customer ownership of work in process and allow the customer to 
unilaterally  terminate  the  contract  for  convenience  and  pay  us  for  costs  incurred  plus  a  reasonable  profit.  For  most  non-U.S. 
government  contracts,  primarily  international  direct  commercial  contracts,  continuous  transfer  of  control  to  our  customer  is 
supported  because  we  deliver  products  that  do  not  have  an  alternative  use  to  us  and  if  our  customer  were  to  terminate  the 

62

contract for reasons other than our non-performance we would have the right to recover damages which would include, among 
other potential damages, the right to payment for our work performed to date plus a reasonable profit.

For performance obligations to deliver products with continuous transfer of control to the customer, revenue is recognized 
based  on  the  extent  of  progress  towards  completion  of  the  performance  obligation,  generally  using  the  percentage-of-
completion cost-to-cost measure of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer as 
we incur costs on our contracts. Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress 
towards  completion  is  measured  based  on  the  ratio  of  costs  incurred  to  date  to  the  total  estimated  costs  to  complete  the 
performance  obligation(s).  For  performance  obligations  to  provide  services  to  the  customer,  revenue  is  recognized  over  time 
based on costs incurred or the right to invoice method (in situations where the value transferred matches our billing rights) as 
our customer receives and consumes the benefits.

For performance obligations in which control does not continuously transfer to the customer, we recognize revenue at the 
point in time in which each performance obligation is fully satisfied. This coincides with the point in time the customer obtains 
control of the product or service, which typically occurs upon customer acceptance or receipt of the product or service, given 
that we maintain control of the product or service until that point.

Backlog  (i.e.,  unfulfilled  or  remaining  performance  obligations)  represents  the  sales  we  expect  to  recognize  for  our 
products and services for which control has not yet transferred to the customer. It is converted into sales in future periods as 
work  is  performed  or  deliveries  are  made.  For  our  cost-reimbursable  and  fixed-priced-incentive  contracts,  the  estimated 
consideration  we  expect  to  receive  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  contract  may  exceed  the  contractual  award  amount.  The 
estimated consideration is determined at the outset of the contract and is continuously reviewed throughout the contract period. 
In determining the estimated consideration, we consider the risks related to the technical, schedule and cost impacts to complete 
the  contract  and  an  estimate  of  any  variable  consideration.  Periodically,  we  review  these  risks  and  may  increase  or  decrease 
backlog accordingly. As the risks on such contracts are successfully retired, the estimated consideration from customers may be 
reduced, resulting in a reduction of backlog without a corresponding recognition of sales. As of December 31, 2023, our ending 
backlog  was  $160.6  billion.  We  expect  to  recognize  approximately  36%  of  our  backlog  over  the  next  12  months  and 
approximately 62% over the next 24 months as revenue, with the remainder recognized thereafter.

For  arrangements  with  the  U.S.  Government  and  FMS  contracts,  we  generally  do  not  begin  work  on  contracts  until 
funding  is  appropriated  by  the  customer.  Billing  timetables  and  payment  terms  on  our  contracts  vary  based  on  a  number  of 
factors, including the contract type. Typical payment terms under fixed-price contracts with the U.S. Government provide that 
the  customer  pays  either  performance-based  payments  (PBPs)  based  on  the  achievement  of  contract  milestones  or  progress 
payments  based  on  a  percentage  of  costs  we  incur.  Typical  payment  terms  under  cost-reimbursable  contracts  with  the  U.S 
Government  provide  for  billing  of  allowable  costs  incurred  plus  applicable  fee  on  a  monthly  or  semi-monthly  basis.  For  the 
majority of our international direct commercial contracts to deliver complex systems, we typically receive advance payments 
prior to commencement of work, as well as milestone payments that are paid in accordance with the terms of our contract as we 
perform. We recognize a liability for payments in excess of revenue recognized, which is presented as a contract liability on the 
balance sheet. The portion of payments retained by the customer until final contract settlement is not considered a significant 
financing component because the intent is to protect the customer from our failure to adequately complete some or all of the 
obligations under the contract. Payments received from customers in advance of revenue recognition are not considered to be 
significant financing components because they are used to meet working capital demands that can be higher in the early stages 
of a contract.

For fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts, we present revenues recognized in excess of billings as contract assets on 
the balance sheet.  Amounts  billed  and  due  from  our customers under both contract  types are classified as receivables on the 
balance sheet.

Significant estimates and assumptions are made in estimating contract sales, costs, and profit. We estimate profit as the 
difference between estimated revenues and total estimated costs to complete the contract. At the outset of a long-term contract, 
we  identify  and  monitor  risks  to  the  achievement  of  the  technical,  schedule  and  cost  aspects  of  the  contract,  as  well  as  our 
ability to earn variable consideration, and assess the effects of those risks on our estimates of sales and total costs to complete 
the contract. The estimates consider the technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product), the 
schedule  and  associated  tasks  (e.g.,  the  number  and  type  of  milestone  events)  and  costs  (e.g.,  material,  labor,  subcontractor, 
overhead,  general  and  administrative  and  the  estimated  costs  to  fulfill  our  industrial  cooperation  agreements,  sometimes 
referred to as offset or localization agreements, required under certain contracts with international customers). The initial profit 
booking rate of each contract considers risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements, schedule and costs in 
the  initial  estimated  total  costs  to  complete  the  contract.  Profit  booking  rates  may  increase  during  the  performance  of  the 
contract  if  we  successfully  retire  risks  related  to  technical,  schedule  and  cost  aspects  of  the  contract,  which  decreases  the 
estimated total costs to complete the contract or may increase the variable consideration we expect to receive on the contract. 

63

Conversely, our profit booking rates may decrease if the estimated total costs to complete the contract increase or our estimates 
of variable consideration we expect to receive decrease. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the 
contract and may affect the profit booking rate. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates 
of the transaction price, a provision for the entire loss is determined at the contract level and is recorded in the period in which 
the loss is evident, which we refer to as a reach-forward loss. 

Comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margin may be impacted favorably or unfavorably by 
changes in profit booking rates on our contracts. Increases in the profit booking rates, typically referred to as favorable profit 
adjustments, usually relate to revisions in the estimated total costs to fulfill the performance obligations that reflect improved 
conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate, resulting in an increase in 
the  estimated  total  costs  to  fulfill  the  performance  obligations  and  a  reduction  in  the  profit  booking  rate  and  are  typically 
referred to as unfavorable profit adjustments. Increases or decreases in profit booking rates are recognized in the current period 
they are determined and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit and margin may also be 
impacted  favorably  or  unfavorably  by  other  items,  which  may  or  may  not  impact  sales.  Favorable  items  may  include  the 
positive  resolution  of  contractual  matters,  cost  recoveries  on  severance  and  restructuring,  insurance  recoveries  and  gains  on 
sales  of  assets.  Unfavorable  items  may  include  the  adverse  resolution  of  contractual  matters;  supply  chain  disruptions; 
restructuring charges (except for significant severance actions, which are excluded from segment operating results); reserves for 
disputes; certain asset impairments; and losses on sales of certain assets. 

Our consolidated net profit booking rate adjustments increased net sales by $1.6 billion in 2023, $2.0 billion in 2022, and 
$2.2 billion in 2021. These adjustments increased segment operating profit by approximately $1.6 billion ($1.3 billion, or $4.98 
per share, after-tax) in 2023, $1.8 billion ($1.4 billion, or $5.40 per share, after-tax) in 2022 and $2.0 billion ($1.6 billion, or 
$5.81 per share, after-tax) in 2021. 

We have various development programs for new and upgraded products, services, and related technologies which have 
complex design and technical challenges. This development work is inherently uncertain and subject to significant variability in 
estimates of the cost and time required to complete the work by us and our suppliers. Many of these programs have cost-type 
contracting arrangements (e.g. cost-reimbursable or cost-plus-fee). In such cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in 
reduced fees, lower profit rates, or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise.

However,  some  of  our  existing  development  programs  are  contracted  on  a  fixed-price  basis  or  include  cost-type 
contracting  for  the  development  phase  with  fixed-price  production  options  and  our  customers  are  increasingly  implementing 
procurement policies such as these that shift risk to contractors. Competitively bid programs with fixed-price development work 
or fixed-price production options increase the risk of a reach-forward loss upon contract award and during the period of contract 
performance.  Due  to  the  complex  and  often  experimental  nature  of  development  programs,  we  may  experience  (and  have 
experienced in the past) technical and quality issues during the development of new products or technologies for a variety of 
reasons. Our development programs are ongoing, and while we believe the cost and fee estimates incorporated in the financial 
statements are appropriate, the technical complexity of these programs and fixed-price contract structure creates financial risk 
as  estimated  completion  costs  may  exceed  the  current  contract  value,  which  could  trigger  earnings  charges,  termination 
provisions, or other financially significant exposures. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated costs 
exceed our estimated contract revenues, and such losses could be significant to our financial results, cash flows, or financial 
condition. Any such losses are recorded in the period in which the loss is evident.

We have experienced performance issues on a classified fixed-price incentive fee contract that involves highly complex 
design and systems integration at our Aeronautics business segment and have periodically recognized reach-forward losses. As 
of December 31, 2023, cumulative losses remained at approximately $270 million. We will continue to monitor the technical 
requirements  and  our  performance,  the  remaining  work  and  any  future  changes  in  scope  or  schedule,  and  estimated  costs  to 
complete the program and may have to record additional losses in future periods if we experience further performance issues, 
increases in scope, or cost growth, which could be material to our financial results. In addition, we and our industry team will 
continue to incur advanced procurement costs (also referred to as pre-contract costs) in order to enhance our ability to achieve 
the schedule and certain milestones. We will monitor the recoverability of pre-contract costs, which could be impacted by the 
customer’s decision regarding future phases of the program.

We are responsible for a program to design, develop and construct a ground-based radar at our RMS business segment. 
The  program  has  experienced  performance  issues  for  which  we  have  periodically  recognized  reach-forward  losses.  As  of 
December 31, 2023, cumulative losses remained at approximately $280 million. We will continue to monitor our performance, 
any future changes in scope, and estimated costs to complete the program and may have to record additional losses in future 
periods  if  we  experience  further  performance  issues,  increases  in  scope,  or  cost  growth.  However,  based  on  the  losses 
previously recorded, the near completion status of the program, and our current estimate of the sales and costs to complete the 

64

program, at this time we do not anticipate that additional losses, if any, would be material to our financial results or financial 
condition.

We have contracted with the Canadian Government for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Program (CMHP) at our RMS 
business segment that provides for design, development, and production of CH-148 aircraft (the Original Equipment contract), 
which is a military variant of the S-92 helicopter, and for logistical support to the fleet (the In Service Support contract) over an 
extended  time  period.  We  are  currently  in  discussions  with  the  Canadian  Government  to  potentially  restructure  certain 
contractual  terms  and  conditions  that  may  be  beneficial  to  both  parties.  The  program  has  experienced  performance  issues, 
including delays in the final aircraft deliveries from the original contract requirement, and the Royal Canadian Air Force’s flight 
hours have been less than originally anticipated, which has impacted program revenues and the recovery of our costs under this 
program.  We  have  incurred  significant  costs  and  recognized  the  related  sales,  a  portion  of  which  are  currently  included  in 
contract assets on the balance sheet. Such assets are recovered based on flight hours. Future sales and recovery of costs under 
the  program  are  highly  dependent  upon  achieving  a  certain  number  of  flight  hours,  which  are  uncertain  and  dependent  on 
aircraft  availability  and  performance,  and  the  availability  of  Canadian  government  resources.  During  the  second  quarter  of 
2023, due to increases in estimated costs for the production and lower than planned revenues for the logistical support program 
considering discussions with the customer and subsequent analysis, we recognized a loss of $100 million ($75 million, or $0.29 
per share, after-tax) on the program. Future performance issues, lower than forecast flight hours, or changes in our estimates 
due  to  the  outcome  of  any  restructuring  discussions,  including  revised  contract  scope  or  customer  requirements  may  further 
affect our ability to recover our costs, including the contract assets recognized on the balance sheet, or our assessment of the 
likelihood  of  cost  recovery  and  may  result  in  additional  losses  that  could  be  material  to  our  operating  results.  As  of 
December 31, 2023, cumulative losses remained unchanged.

We  also  have  a  number  of  contracts  with  Türkish  industry  for  the  Türkish  Utility  Helicopter  Program  (TUHP),  which 
anticipates  co-production  with  Türkish  industry  for  production  of  T70  helicopters  for  use  in  Türkiye,  as  well  as  the  related 
provision of Türkish goods and services under buy-back or offset obligations, to include the future sales of helicopters built in 
Türkiye for sale globally. In 2020, the U.S. Government imposed certain sanctions on Türkish entities and persons that have 
affected  our  ability  to  perform  under  the  TUHP  contracts  and  we  have  provided  force  majeure  notices  under  the  affected 
contracts. As of December 31, 2023, we have recorded insignificant losses related to development work for the program. The 
TUHP contracts may be negotiated to be restructured or terminated, either in whole or in part and as a result, we could be at risk 
of recording significant reach-forward losses in future periods. Additionally, we could elect to pursue other relief or remedies, 
which  could  result  in  a  further  reduction  in  sales,  the  imposition  of  penalties  or  assessment  of  damages,  and  increased 
unrecoverable costs, which could be material to our financial results.

Our  MFC  business  segment  was  previously  awarded  a  competitively  bid  classified  contract,  which  includes  multiple 
phases of the program. We are currently performing on a phase which is primarily structured as cost-type. Additional phases are 
primarily fixed price and are not currently able to be awarded. If the additional phases are awarded at later dates, some of which 
could be within the next twelve months, we expect that those phases would be performed at a loss. As of December 31, 2023, 
cumulative losses recognized were approximately $45 million. We will continue to monitor the circumstances on the program 
and we may be required to recognize a reach-forward loss related to any additional phases at such time that we determine it is 
probable that they will be awarded. Any such losses could be material to our financial results.

Research and development and similar costs – We conduct research and development (R&D) activities using our own 
funds  (referred  to  as  company-funded  R&D  or  independent  research  and  development  (IR&D))  and  under  contractual 
arrangements  with  our  customers  (referred  to  as  customer-funded  R&D)  to  enhance  existing  products  and  services  and  to 
develop  future  technologies.  R&D  costs  include  basic  research,  applied  research,  concept  formulation  studies,  design, 
development, and related test activities. Company-funded R&D costs are allocated to customer contracts as part of the general 
and  administrative  overhead  costs  and  are  generally  recoverable  to  the  extent  allocable  to  our  cost-reimbursable  customer 
contracts with the U.S. Government. These costs also may be recoverable to the extent allocable to certain fixed-price incentive 
contracts  with  the  U.S.  Government.  Customer-funded  R&D  costs  are  charged  directly  to  the  related  customer  contracts. 
Substantially  all  R&D  costs  are  charged  to  cost  of  sales  as  incurred.  Company-funded  R&D  costs  charged  to  cost  of  sales 
totaled $1.5 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion in 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

Stock-based compensation – We issue stock-based compensation awards in the form of restricted stock units (RSUs) and 
performance stock units (PSUs) that generally vest three years from the grant date and are settled in shares. Compensation cost 
related to all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date based on the estimated fair value of the award. The grant date fair 
value of RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less a discount to reflect the delay in 
payment of dividend-equivalent cash payments that are made only upon vesting. The grant date fair value of PSUs is measured 
in a manner similar to RSUs for awards that vest based on service and performance conditions or using a Monte Carlo model 
for awards that vest based on service and market conditions.

65

For all RSUs, we recognize the grant date fair value, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the 
requisite service period, which is shorter than the vesting period if the employee is retirement eligible on the date of grant or 
will  become  retirement  eligible  before  the  end  of  the  vesting  period.  For  PSUs  that  vest  based  on  service  and  performance 
conditions, we recognize the grant date fair value, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the vesting 
period based on the number of awards expected to ultimately vest. For PSUs that vest based on service and market conditions, 
we recognize the grant date fair value, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the vesting period. At 
each reporting date, estimated forfeitures for all stock-based compensation awards and the number of PSUs expected to vest 
based on service and performance conditions is adjusted.

Income taxes – We calculate our provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax 
assets  and  liabilities  are  recognized  based  on  the  future  tax  consequences  attributable  to  temporary  differences  that  exist 
between  the  financial  statement  carrying  amount  of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  respective  tax  bases,  as  well  as  from 
operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. The provision for income taxes differs from the amounts currently receivable or 
payable because certain items of income and expense are recognized in different periods for financial reporting purposes than 
for income tax purposes. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in 
which we expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid.

We  periodically  assess  our  tax  exposures  related  to  periods  that  are  open  to  examination.  Based  on  the  latest  available 
information,  we  evaluate  our  tax  positions  to  determine  whether  the  position  will  more  likely  than  not  be  sustained  upon 
examination  by  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)  or  other  taxing  authorities.  If  we  cannot  reach  a  more-likely-than-not 
determination, no benefit is recorded. If we determine that the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, we record the 
largest  amount  of  benefit  that  is  more  likely  than  not  to  be  realized  when  the  tax  position  is  settled.  We  record  interest  and 
penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense on our consolidated statements of earnings. 

In  accordance  with  the  regulations  that  govern  cost  accounting  requirements  for  government  contracts,  current  state  and 
local income and franchise taxes are generally considered allowable and allocable costs and, consistent with industry practice, 
are recorded in operating costs and expenses. We generally recognize changes in deferred state taxes and unrecognized state tax 
benefits in unallocated corporate expenses.

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  –  Cash  equivalents  include  highly  liquid  instruments  with  original  maturities  of  90  days  or 

less.

Receivables – Receivables, net represent our unconditional right to consideration under the contract and include amounts 
billed and currently due from customers. Receivables, net are recorded at the net amount expected to be collected. There were 
no significant impairment losses related to our receivables in 2023, 2022 or 2021.

Contract  assets  –  Contract  assets  include  unbilled  amounts  typically  resulting  from  sales  under  contracts  when  the 
percentage-of-completion  cost-to-cost  method  of  revenue  recognition  is  utilized  and  revenue  recognized  exceeds  the  amount 
billed to the customer. Contract assets are recorded at the net amount expected to be billed and collected. Contract assets are 
classified as current based on our contract operating cycle, and include amounts that may be billed and collected beyond one 
year due to the long-cycle nature of our contracts.

Contract liabilities – Contract liabilities include advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized. Contract 
liabilities  are  classified  as  current  based  on  our  contract  operating  cycle  and  reported  on  a  contract-by-contract  basis,  net  of 
revenue recognized, at the end of each reporting period.

Inventories – We record inventories at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. The majority of our inventory 
represents work-in-process for contracts where control has not yet passed to the customer. Work-in-process primarily consists 
of labor, material, subcontractor, and overhead costs. In addition, costs incurred to fulfill a contract in advance of the contract 
being awarded are recorded in inventories as work-in-process if we determine that those costs relate directly to a contract or to 
an anticipated contract that we can specifically identify and contract award is probable, the costs generate or enhance resources 
that  will  be  used  in  satisfying  performance  obligations,  and  the  costs  are  recoverable  (referred  to  as  pre-contract  costs).  Pre-
contract costs that are initially capitalized in inventory are generally recognized as cost of sales consistent with the transfer of 
products and services to the customer upon the receipt of the anticipated contract. All other pre-contract costs, including start-
up costs, are expensed as incurred. We determine the costs of other inventories such as materials, spares and supplies by using 
the first-in first-out or average cost methods. If events or changes in circumstances indicate that pre-contract costs are no longer 
recoverable or the utility of our inventories have diminished through damage, deterioration, obsolescence, changes in price or 
other causes, a loss is recognized in the period in which it occurs. 

Property,  plant  and  equipment  –  Property,  plant  and  equipment  are  initially  recorded  at  cost.  The  cost  of  plant  and 
equipment are depreciated generally using accelerated methods during the first half of the estimated useful lives of the assets 

66

and the straight-line method thereafter. The estimated useful lives of our plant and equipment generally range from 10 to 40 
years for buildings and five to 15 years for machinery and equipment. No depreciation expense is recorded on construction in 
progress until such assets are placed into operation.

We review the carrying amounts of long-lived assets for impairment if events or changes in the facts and circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We assess impairment by comparing the estimated undiscounted 
future cash flows of the related asset grouping to its carrying amount. If an asset is determined to be impaired, we recognize an 
impairment charge in the current period for the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying amount.

Capitalized software – We capitalize certain costs associated with the development or purchase of internal-use software. 
The  amounts  capitalized  are  included  in  other  noncurrent  assets  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheets  and  are  amortized  on  a 
straight-line  basis  over  the  estimated  useful  life  of  the  resulting  software,  which  ranges  from  two  to  15  years.  As  of 
December 31, 2023 and 2022, capitalized software totaled $1.4 billion and $919 million, net of accumulated amortization of 
$2.8 billion and $2.6 billion. No amortization expense is recorded until the software is ready for its intended use. Amortization 
expense related to capitalized software was $263 million in 2023, $253 million in 2022 and $175 million in 2021.

Fair  value  of  financial  instruments  –  We  measure  the  fair  value  of  our  financial  instruments  using  observable  and 
unobservable  inputs.  Observable  inputs  reflect  market  data  obtained  from  independent  sources,  while  unobservable  inputs 
reflect internal market assumptions. The following hierarchy classifies the inputs used to determine fair value into three levels:

Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – inputs, other than quoted prices, observable by a marketplace participant either directly or indirectly.

Level 3 – unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement.

Investments – We hold a portfolio of marketable securities to fund our non-qualified employee benefit plans. A portion of 
these  securities  are  held  in  common/collective  trust  funds  and  are  measured  at  fair  value  using  Net  Asset  Value  (NAV)  per 
share as a practical expedient. Marketable securities accounted for as trading are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and 
are included in other noncurrent assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Gains and losses on these investments are included 
in other unallocated, net within cost of sales on our consolidated statements of earnings. 

We  make  investments  in  companies  that  we  believe  are  advancing  or  developing  new  technologies  applicable  to  our 
business.  These  investments  are  primarily  in  early-stage  companies  and  may  be  in  the  form  of  common  or  preferred  stock, 
warrants,  convertible  debt  securities,  investments  in  funds  or  equity  method  investments.  Most  of  these  investments  are  in 
equity securities without readily determinable fair values (privately held securities), which are measured initially at cost and are 
then adjusted to fair value only if there is an observable price change or reduced for impairment, if applicable. The carrying 
amounts  of  the  investments  were  $581  million  and  $589  million  at  December  31,  2023  and  December  31,  2022  and  are 
included on our consolidated balance sheets within other assets, both current and noncurrent. Changes in fair value and/or sales 
of investments are reflected in the other non-operating income, net account on our consolidated statements of earnings. During 
2023 and 2022, we recorded net losses of $64 million ($48 million, or $0.19 per share, after-tax) and $114 million ($86 million, 
or $0.33 per share, after-tax). During 2021, we recorded net gains of $265 million ($199 million, or $0.72 per share, after-tax). 

67

Equity method investments – Investments where we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but do not control, 
are  accounted  for  under  the  equity  method  of  accounting  and  are  included  in  other  noncurrent  assets  on  our  consolidated 
balance sheets. Significant influence typically exists if we have a 20% to 50% ownership interest in the investee. Under this 
method of accounting, our share of the net earnings or losses of the investee is included in operating profit in other income, net 
on  our  consolidated  statements  of  earnings  since  the  activities  of  the  investee  are  closely  aligned  with  the  operations  of  the 
business  segment  holding  the  investment.  We  evaluate  our  equity  method  investments  for  impairment  whenever  events  or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such investments may be impaired. If a decline in the value of 
an equity method investment is determined to be other than temporary, a loss is recorded in earnings in the current period. As of 
December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, our equity method investments totaled $701 million and $685 million, which was 
primarily composed of our investment in the United Launch Alliance (ULA) joint venture. Our share of net earnings related to 
our equity method investees was $40 million in 2023, $114 million in 2022 and $97 million in 2021, of which approximately 
$20 million, $100 million and $65 million was included in our Space business segment operating profit.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets – We perform an impairment test of our goodwill at least annually in the fourth quarter or 
more  frequently  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  the  carrying  value  of  goodwill  may  be  impaired.  We 
may  use  both  a  qualitative  and  quantitative  approaches  when  testing  goodwill  for  impairment.  For  selected  reporting  units 
where we use the qualitative approach, we perform a qualitative evaluation of events and circumstances impacting the reporting 
unit to determine the likelihood of goodwill impairment. Based on that qualitative evaluation, if we determine it is more likely 
than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, no further evaluation is necessary. Otherwise we 
perform a quantitative impairment test. We perform quantitative tests for most reporting units at least once every three years. 
However, for certain reporting units we may perform a quantitative impairment test every year.

To perform the quantitative impairment test we compare the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including 
goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the 
carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, a goodwill impairment loss is recognized in an 
amount equal to that excess. We generally estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of a discounted 
cash flow (DCF) analysis and market-based valuation methodologies such as comparable public company trading values and 
values observed in recent business acquisitions.

Finite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their applicable useful lives, ranging from three to 20 years, based on 
the  nature  of  the  asset  and  the  underlying  pattern  of  economic  benefit  as  reflected  by  future  net  cash  inflows.  Acquired 
intangible  assets  deemed  to  have  indefinite  lives  are  not  amortized,  but  are  subject  to  annual  impairment  testing  or  more 
frequently if events or change in circumstance indicate that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired. We perform an 
impairment test of finite-lived intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may be 
impaired.

Leases  –  We  evaluate  whether  our  contractual  arrangements  contain  leases  at  the  inception  of  such  arrangements. 
Specifically,  we  consider  whether  we  can  control  the  underlying  asset  and  have  the  right  to  obtain  substantially  all  of  the 
economic benefits or outputs from the asset. Substantially all of our leases are long-term operating leases with fixed payment 
terms. We do not have significant financing leases. Our right-of-use (ROU) operating lease assets represent our right to use an 
underlying asset for the lease term, and our operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments. ROU 
operating lease assets are recorded in other noncurrent assets in our consolidated balance sheet. Operating lease liabilities are 
recorded in other current liabilities or other noncurrent liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet based on their contractual 
due dates.

Both the ROU operating lease asset and liability are recognized as of the lease commencement date at the present value of 
the  lease  payments  over  the  lease  term.  Most  of  our  leases  do  not  provide  an  implicit  rate  that  can  readily  be  determined. 
Therefore,  we  use  a  discount  rate  based  on  our  incremental  borrowing  rate,  which  is  determined  using  our  credit  rating  and 
information available as of the commencement date. ROU operating lease assets include lease payments made at or before the 
lease commencement date, net of any lease incentives.

Our operating lease agreements may include options to extend the lease term or terminate it early. We include options to 
extend or terminate leases in the ROU operating lease asset and liability when it is reasonably certain we will exercise these 
options. Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is included in cost of sales on our 
consolidated statement of earnings.

We  have  operating  lease  arrangements  with  lease  and  non-lease  components.  The  non-lease  components  in  our 
arrangements are not significant when compared to the lease components. For all operating leases, we account for the lease and 
non-lease  components  as  a  single  component.  Additionally,  for  certain  equipment  leases,  we  apply  a  portfolio  approach  to 
recognize  operating  lease  ROU  assets  and  liabilities.  We  evaluate  ROU  assets  for  impairment  consistent  with  our  property, 
plant and equipment policy.

68

Postretirement benefit plans – Many of our employees and retirees participate in defined benefit pension plans, retiree 
medical  and  life  insurance  plans,  and  other  postemployment  plans  (collectively,  postretirement  benefit  plans).  Obligation 
amounts we record related to our postretirement benefit plans are computed based on service to date, using actuarial valuations 
that are based in part on certain key economic assumptions we make, including the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of 
return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality) and health care 
cost trend rates, each as appropriate based on the nature of the plans.

A market-related value of our plan assets, determined using actual asset gains or losses over the prior three year period, is 
used  to  calculate  the  amount  of  deferred  asset  gains  or  losses  to  be  amortized.  These  asset  gains  or  losses,  along  with  those 
resulting from adjustments to our benefit obligation, will be amortized to expense using the corridor method, where gains and 
losses are recognized over a period of years to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of plan assets or benefit obligations. 

We  recognize  on  a  plan-by-plan  basis  the  funded  status  of  our  postretirement  benefit  plans  as  either  an  asset  recorded 
within  other  noncurrent  assets  or  a  liability  recorded  within  noncurrent  liabilities  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheets.  The 
GAAP funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the benefit obligation of the 
plan. The funded status under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, is calculated on a 
different basis than under GAAP.

Postemployment plans – We record a liability for postemployment benefits, such as severance or job training, typically 
when  payment  is  probable,  the  amount  is  reasonably  estimable,  and  the  obligation  relates  to  rights  that  have  vested  or 
accumulated.

Environmental  matters  –  We  record  a  liability  for  environmental  matters  when  it  is  probable  that  a  liability  has  been 
incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to 
be incurred for remediation at a particular site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future 
cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably determined. Our environmental liabilities are recorded on our consolidated 
balance sheets within other liabilities, both current and noncurrent. We expect to include a substantial portion of environmental 
costs  in  our  net  sales  and  cost  of  sales  in  future  periods  pursuant  to  U.S.  Government  regulation.  At  the  time  a  liability  is 
recorded for future environmental costs, we record assets for estimated future recovery considered probable through the pricing 
of  products  and  services  to  agencies  of  the  U.S.  Government,  regardless  of  the  contract  form  (e.g.,  cost-reimbursable,  fixed-
price). We continually evaluate the recoverability of our assets for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future 
recovery  by  assessing,  among  other  factors,  U.S.  Government  regulations,  our  U.S.  Government  business  base  and  contract 
mix, our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs, and efforts by some U.S. Government representatives to limit such 
reimbursement.  We  include  the  portions  of  those  environmental  costs  expected  to  be  allocated  to  our  non-U.S.  government 
contracts, or determined not to be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, in our cost of sales at the time the liability is 
established or adjusted. Our assets for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery are recorded on 
our consolidated balance sheets within other assets, both current and noncurrent. We project costs and recovery of costs over 
approximately 20 years.

Derivative  financial  instruments  –  Derivatives  are  recorded  at  their  fair  value  and  included  in  other  current  and 
noncurrent  assets  and  liabilities  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheets.  The  classification  of  gains  and  losses  resulting  from 
changes  in  the  fair  values  of  derivatives  is  dependent  on  our  intended  use  of  the  derivative  and  its  resulting  designation. 
Adjustments  to  reflect  changes  in  fair  values  of  derivatives  attributable  to  highly  effective  hedges  are  either  reflected  in 
earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated 
other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that 
are not highly effective, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings.

69

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures

In  November  2023,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (FASB)  issued  Accounting  Standard  Update  (ASU)  No. 
2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires a public entity to 
disclose significant segment expenses and other segment items on an annual and interim basis and provide in interim periods all 
disclosures about a reportable segment’s profit or loss and assets that are currently required annually. Additionally, it requires a 
public entity to disclose the title and position of the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The ASU does not change how 
a  public  entity  identifies  its  operating  segments,  aggregates  them,  or  applies  the  quantitative  thresholds  to  determine  its 
reportable  segments.  The  new  standard  is  effective  for  fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  2023,  and  interim  periods 
within  fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  2024,  with  early  adoption  permitted.  A  public  entity  should  apply  the 
amendments in this ASU retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. We expect this ASU to only 
impact our disclosures with no impacts to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures

In  December  2023,  the  FASB  issued  ASU  No.  2023-09,  Income  Taxes  (Topic  740):  Improvements  to  Income  Tax 
Disclosures, which focuses on the rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. ASU No. 2023-09 requires a public business entity 
(PBE) to disclose, on an annual basis, a tabular rate reconciliation using both percentages and currency amounts, broken out 
into specified categories with certain reconciling items further broken out by nature and jurisdiction to the extent those items 
exceed  a  specified  threshold.  In  addition,  all  entities  are  required  to  disclose  income  taxes  paid,  net  of  refunds  received 
disaggregated by federal, state/local, and foreign and by jurisdiction if the amount is at least 5% of total income tax payments, 
net of refunds received. For PBEs, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, with 
early adoption permitted. An entity may apply the amendments in this ASU prospectively by providing the revised disclosures 
for the period ending December 31, 2025 and continuing to provide the pre-ASU disclosures for the prior periods, or may apply 
the  amendments  retrospectively  by  providing  the  revised  disclosures  for  all  period  presented.  We  expect  this  ASU  to  only 
impact our disclosures with no impacts to our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

Note 2 – Earnings Per Share

The weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per common share were as follows 

(in millions):

Weighted average common shares outstanding for basic computations
Weighted average dilutive effect of equity awards
Weighted average common shares outstanding for diluted computations

2023
250.3 
0.9 
251.2 

2022
263.7 
0.9 
264.6 

2021
276.4 
1.0 
277.4 

We  compute  basic  and  diluted  earnings  per  common  share  by  dividing  net  earnings  by  the  respective  weighted  average 
number of common shares outstanding for the periods presented. Our calculation of diluted earnings per common share also 
includes the dilutive effects for the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance stock units 
(PSUs)  based  on  the  treasury  stock  method.  There  were  no  significant  anti-dilutive  equity  awards  for  the  years  ended 
December  31,  2023,  2022  and  2021.  Basic  and  diluted  weighted  average  common  shares  outstanding  decreased  in  2023
compared to 2022 due to share repurchases.

Note 3 – Information on Business Segments

Overview

We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, MFC, RMS and Space. We organize our business segments based on 

the nature of products and services offered. Following is a brief description of the activities of our business segments:

•

Aeronautics – Engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade 
of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies.

• Missiles and Fire Control – Provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike 
weapon systems; logistics; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration 
services; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; and energy management solutions.

70

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•

•

Rotary and Mission Systems – Designs, manufactures, services and supports various military and commercial helicopters, 
surface  ships,  sea  and  land-based  missile  defense  systems,  radar  systems,  laser  systems,  sea  and  air-based  mission  and 
combat systems, command and control mission solutions, cyber solutions, and simulation and training solutions.

Space – Engaged in the research and design, development, engineering and production of satellites, space transportation 
systems, and strategic, advanced strike, and defensive systems. Space provides network-enabled situational awareness and 
integrates complex space and ground global systems to help our customers gather, analyze and securely distribute critical 
intelligence data. Space is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security 
systems.  Operating  profit  for  our  Space  business  segment  also  includes  our  share  of  earnings  for  our  50%  ownership 
interest  in  ULA,  which  provides  expendable  launch  services  to  the  U.S.  Government  and  commercial  customers.  Our 
investment in ULA totaled $567 million and $571 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022.

Selected Financial Data by Business Segment

Net  sales  and  operating  profit  of  our  business  segments  exclude  intersegment  sales,  cost  of  sales  and  profit  as  these 
activities  are  eliminated  in  consolidation  and  thus  are  not  included  in  management’s  evaluation  of  performance  of  each 
segment.  Business  segment  operating  profit  includes  our  share  of  earnings  or  losses  from  equity  method  investees  as  the 
operating activities of the equity method investees are closely aligned with the operations of our business segments.

Summary Operating Results

As  discussed  in  “Note  1  –  Organization  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies”,  effective  January  1,  2023,  we  no  longer 
consider amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets when evaluating the operating performance of our business 
segments. As a result, intangible asset amortization expense, which was previously included in segment operating profit, is now 
reported in unallocated items within total consolidated operating profit.

This change has been applied to the amounts below, including the amounts for 2022 and 2021. Sales and operating profit 

for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions):

Net sales

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space

Total net sales
Operating profit
Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space

Total business segment operating profit

Unallocated items

     FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment 
Intangible asset amortization expense

     Severance and other charges (a)

Other, net 

Total unallocated, net
Total consolidated operating profit

2023

2022

2021

$  27,474  $  26,987  $  26,748 
  11,693 
  11,317 
  11,253 
  16,789 
  16,148 
  16,239 
  12,605 
  11,814 
  11,532 
$  67,571  $  65,984  $  67,044 

$  2,825  $  2,867  $  2,800 
1,650 
2,030 
1,184 
7,664 

1,637 
1,906 
1,057 
7,467 

1,541 
1,865 
1,158 
7,389 

1,660 
(247)   
(92)   
(203)   
1,118 

1,960 
(285) 
(36) 
(180) 
1,459 
$  8,507  $  8,348  $  9,123 

1,709 
(248)   
(100)   
(480)   
881 

(a)

Severance  and  other  charges  include  severance  and  other  charges  totaling  $92  million  ($73  million,  or  $0.30  per  share,  after-tax) 
associated  with  severance  costs  for  the  planned  reduction  of  certain  positions  across  the  corporation  and  asset  impairment  charges  in 
2023; $100 million ($79 million, or $0.31 per share, after-tax) charge related to actions at our RMS business segment, which include 
severance costs for reduction of positions and asset impairment charges in 2022; and $36 million ($28 million, or $0.10 per share, after-
tax) charge associated with plans to close and consolidate certain facilities and reduce total workforce within our RMS business segment 
in 2021.

71

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unallocated Items

Business segment operating profit excludes the FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment, a portion of corporate costs not 
considered allowable or allocable to contracts with the U.S. Government under the applicable U.S. Government cost accounting 
standards (CAS) or federal acquisition regulations (FAR), and other items not considered part of management’s evaluation of 
segment  operating  performance  such  as  a  portion  of  management  and  administration  costs,  legal  fees  and  settlements, 
environmental  costs,  stock-based  compensation  expense,  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  assets  and  liabilities  for  deferred 
compensation  plans,  retiree  benefits,  significant  severance  charges,  significant  asset  impairments,  gains  or  losses  from 
divestitures, intangible asset amortization expense, and other miscellaneous corporate activities. Excluded items are included in 
the reconciling item “Unallocated items” between operating profit from our business segments and our consolidated operating 
profit. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” (under the caption “Use of Estimates”) for a discussion 
related to certain factors that may impact the comparability of net sales and operating profit of our business segments. 

FAS/CAS Pension Operating Adjustment

Our  business  segments’  results  of  operations  include  pension  expense  only  as  calculated  under  U.S.  Government  Cost 
Accounting  Standards  (CAS),  which  we  refer  to  as  CAS  pension  cost.  We  recover  CAS  pension  and  other  postretirement 
benefit plan cost through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, recognize CAS 
pension cost in each of our business segment’s net sales and cost of sales. Our consolidated financial statements must present 
pension  and  other  postretirement  benefit  plan  income  calculated  in  accordance  with  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (FAS) 
requirements  under  U.S.  GAAP.  The  operating  portion  of  the  total  FAS/CAS  pension  adjustment  represents  the  difference 
between  the  service  cost  component  of  FAS  pension  income  (expense)  and  total  CAS  pension  cost.  The  non-service  FAS 
pension  income  (expense)  components  are  included  in  non-service  FAS  pension  income  (expense)  in  our  consolidated 
statements of earnings. As a result, to the extent that CAS pension cost exceeds the service cost component of FAS pension 
income (expense) we have a favorable FAS/CAS pension operating adjustment. 

Intersegment Sales

Sales between our business segments are excluded from our consolidated and segment operating results as these activities 

are eliminated in consolidation. Intersegment sales for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions):

Intersegment sales

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control

Rotary and Mission Systems

Space 

Total intersegment sales

2023

2022

2021

$ 

303  $ 
688 

249  $ 
627 

2,125 
358 

1,930 
381 

219 
618 

1,895 
360 

$  3,474  $  3,187  $  3,092 

72

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disaggregation of Net Sales

Net sales by products and services, contract type, customer category and geographic region for each of our business 

segments were as follows (in millions):

Net sales
Products
Services
Total net sales

Net sales by contract type

Fixed-price
Cost-reimbursable
Total net sales

Net sales by customer 

U.S. Government
International (a)
U.S. commercial and other
Total net sales

Net sales by geographic region

United States
Europe
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Other
Total net sales

Net sales
Products
Services
Total net sales

Net sales by contract type

Fixed-price
Cost-reimbursable
Total net sales

Net sales by customer
U.S. Government
International (a)
U.S. commercial and other
Total net sales

Net sales by geographic region

United States
Europe
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Other
Total net sales

Aeronautics

MFC

2023
RMS

Space 

Total

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

22,758  $ 
4,716 
27,474  $ 

9,919  $ 
1,334 
11,253  $ 

12,913  $ 
3,326 
16,239  $ 

10,675  $ 
1,930 
12,605  $ 

18,664  $ 
8,810 
27,474  $ 

7,661  $ 
3,592 
11,253  $ 

10,403  $ 
5,836 
16,239  $ 

3,276  $ 
9,329 
12,605  $ 

18,311  $ 
9,034 
129 
27,474  $ 

18,440  $ 
4,898 
2,800 
987 
349 
27,474  $ 

7,769  $ 
3,473 
11 
11,253  $ 

7,780  $ 
786 
687 
1,844 
156 
11,253  $ 

10,961  $ 
4,983 
295 
16,239  $ 

11,256  $ 
1,265 
2,275 
721 
722 
16,239  $ 

12,382  $ 
154 
69 
12,605  $ 

12,451  $ 
62 
89 
2 
1 
12,605  $ 

56,265 
11,306 
67,571 

40,004 
27,567 
67,571 

49,423 
17,644 
504 
67,571 

49,927 
7,011 
5,851 
3,554 
1,228 
67,571 

Aeronautics

MFC

2022
RMS

Space 

Total

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

22,870  $ 
4,117 
26,987  $ 

10,048  $ 
1,269 
11,317  $ 

12,811  $ 
3,337 
16,148  $ 

9,737  $ 
1,795 
11,532  $ 

19,431  $ 
7,556 
26,987  $ 

8,014  $ 
3,303 
11,317  $ 

10,460  $ 
5,688 
16,148  $ 

3,064  $ 
8,468 
11,532  $ 

7,814  $ 
3,496 
7 
11,317  $ 

7,821  $ 
1,020 
461 
1,858 
157 
11,317  $ 

11,331  $ 
4,470 
347 
16,148  $ 

11,678  $ 
857 
1,994 
823 
796 
16,148  $ 

11,344  $ 
154 
34 
11,532  $ 

11,378  $ 
87 
54 
12 
1 
11,532  $ 

18,026  $ 
8,811 
150 
26,987  $ 

18,176  $ 
4,303 
2,970 
1,103 
435 
26,987  $ 

73

55,466 
10,518 
65,984 

40,969 
25,015 
65,984 

48,515 
16,931 
538 
65,984 

49,053 
6,267 
5,479 
3,796 
1,389 
65,984 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net sales
Products
Services
Total net sales

Net sales by contract type

Fixed-price
Cost-reimbursable
Total net sales

Net sales by customer
U.S. Government
International (a)
U.S. commercial and other
Total net sales

Net sales by geographic region

United States
Europe
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Other
Total net sales

Aeronautics

MFC

2021
RMS

Space 

Total

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

22,631  $ 
4,117 
26,748  $ 

10,269  $ 
1,424 
11,693  $ 

13,483  $ 
3,306 
16,789  $ 

10,052  $ 
1,762 
11,814  $ 

19,734  $ 
7,014 
26,748  $ 

8,079  $ 
3,614 
11,693  $ 

11,125  $ 
5,664 
16,789  $ 

2,671  $ 
9,143 
11,814  $ 

17,262  $ 
9,403 
83 
26,748  $ 

17,345  $ 
3,973 
3,644 
1,351 
435 
26,748  $ 

8,341  $ 
3,346 
6 
11,693  $ 

8,347  $ 
910 
292 
2,066 
78 
11,693  $ 

11,736  $ 
4,719 
334 
16,789  $ 

12,070  $ 
909 
2,178 
827 
805 
16,789  $ 

10,811  $ 
971 
32 
11,814  $ 

10,843  $ 
968 

(6)   
9 
— 
11,814  $ 

56,435 
10,609 
67,044 

41,609 
25,435 
67,044 

48,150 
18,439 
455 
67,044 

48,605 
6,760 
6,108 
4,253 
1,318 
67,044 

(a)

International sales include FMS contracted through the U.S. Government, direct commercial sales with international governments and 
commercial and other sales to international customers.

Our Aeronautics business segment includes our largest program, the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, an international 
multi-role,  multi-variant,  stealth  fighter  aircraft.  Net  sales  for  the  F-35  program  represented  approximately  26%  of  our 
consolidated net sales during 2023 and 27% during both 2022 and 2021.

Capital Expenditures and PP&E Depreciation and Software Amortization

2023

2022

2021

Capital expenditures

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space
Space

Total business segment capital expenditures

Corporate activities
Corporate activities

Total capital expenditures
Total capital expenditures

PP&E depreciation and software amortization 

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space 
Space 

Total business segment depreciation and amortization
Corporate activities (a)
Total depreciation and amortization 

(a)

Includes amortization of purchased intangibles.

74

$ 

535  $ 
252 
220 
455 
1,462 
229 

477 
304 
279 
305 
1,365 
157 
$  1,691  $  1,670  $  1,522 

461  $ 
253 
266 
391 
1,371 
299 

$ 

416  $ 
175 
220 
221 
1,032 
398 

348 
153 
250 
205 
956 
408 
$  1,430  $  1,404  $  1,364 

383  $ 
160 
245 
201 
989 
415 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assets

Total assets for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions):

Assets

Aeronautics
Missiles and Fire Control
Rotary and Mission Systems
Space 

Total business segment assets

Corporate assets (a)

Total assets

2023

2022

$  13,167  $  12,055 
5,788 
  17,988 

5,703 
  17,521 

6,560 
  42,951 
9,505 

6,351 
  42,182 
  10,698 

$  52,456  $  52,880 

(a) Corporate assets primarily include cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes, assets for the portion of environmental costs that 
are  probable  of  future  recovery,  property,  plant  and  equipment  used  in  our  corporate  operations,  assets  held  in  a  trust  for  deferred 
compensation plans, and other marketable investments.

Note 4 – Receivables, net, Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities

Receivables, net, contract assets and contract liabilities were as follows (in millions):

Receivables, net
Contract assets
Contract liabilities

2023

2022
$  2,132  $  2,505 
  12,318 
  13,183 
8,488 
9,190 

Receivables, net consist of approximately $1.4 billion from the U.S. Government and $749 million from other governments 
and commercial customers as of December 31, 2023. Substantially all accounts receivable at December 31, 2023 are expected 
to be collected in 2024. We do not believe we have significant exposure to credit risk as the majority of our accounts receivable 
are due from the U.S. Government either as the ultimate customer or in connection with foreign military sales.

Contract  assets  are  net  of  progress  payments  and  performance  based  payments  from  our  customers  as  well  as  advance 
payments from non-U.S. government customers totaling approximately $50.5 billion and $47.0 billion as of December 31, 2023
and  2022.  Contract  assets  increased $865  million  during  2023,  primarily  due  to  the  recognition  of  revenue  related  to  the 
satisfaction  or  partial  satisfaction  of  performance  obligations  during  2023  for  which  we  have  not  yet  billed  our  customers 
(primarily on the F-35 program at Aeronautics). There were no significant credit or impairment losses related to our contract 
assets during 2023 and 2022. We expect to bill our customers for the majority of the December 31, 2023 contract assets during 
2024.

Contract  liabilities  increased $702  million  during  2023,  primarily  due  to  payments  received  in  excess  of  revenue 
recognized  on  these  performance  obligations.  During  2023,  we  recognized  $5.1  billion  of  our  contract  liabilities  at 
December  31,  2022  as  revenue.  During  2022,  we  recognized  $4.8  billion  of  our  contract  liabilities  at  December  31,  2021  as 
revenue. During 2021, we recognized $4.5 billion of our contract liabilities at December 31, 2020 as revenue.

Note 5 – Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Materials, spares and supplies
Work-in-process
Finished goods
Total inventories

$ 

2023
606  $ 

2022
599 
2,297 
192 
$  3,132  $  3,088 

2,338 
188 

Costs incurred to fulfill a contract in advance of the contract being awarded are included in inventories as work-in-process 
if we determine that those costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that we can specifically identify and 
determine that contract award is probable, the costs generate or enhance resources that will be used in satisfying performance 
obligations, and the costs are recoverable (referred to as pre-contract costs). These advanced procurement costs are generally 
incurred in order to enhance our ability to achieve schedule and certain customer milestones. Pre-contract costs that are initially 

75

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capitalized  in  inventory  are  generally  recognized  as  cost  of  sales  consistent  with  the  transfer  of  products  and  services  to  the 
customer  upon  the  receipt  of  the  anticipated  contract.  All  other  pre-contract  costs,  including  start-up  costs,  are  expensed  as 
incurred. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, $989 million and $791 million of pre-contract costs were included in inventories. 
The increase in pre-contract costs as of December 31, 2023 is primarily driven by our Aeronautics business segment (primarily 
classified contracts).

Note 6 – Property, Plant and Equipment, net

Property, plant and equipment, net consisted of the following (in millions):

Land
Buildings
Machinery and equipment
Construction in progress
Total property, plant and equipment
Less: accumulated depreciation
Total property, plant and equipment, net

2023
144  $ 

9,049 
9,908 
2,081 
21,182 
(12,812)   
8,370  $ 

2022
147 
8,555 
9,400 
2,036 
20,138 
(12,163) 
7,975 

$ 

$ 

Depreciation expense related to plant and equipment was $920 million in 2023, $903 million in 2022 and $904 million in 

2021.

Note 7 – Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business segment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at December 31, 2021

Acquisitions
Other

Balance at December 31, 2022

Other

Balance at December 31, 2023

$ 

Aeronautics
$ 

MFC

RMS

Space

Total

2,090  $ 
— 
(7)   

2,083 
3 
2,086  $ 

6,759  $ 
3 
(36)   

6,726 
15 
6,741  $ 

1,777  $ 
— 
(2)   

1,775 
1 
1,776  $ 

10,813 
3 
(36) 
10,780 
19 
10,799 

187  $ 
— 
9 
196 
— 
196  $ 

The gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization of our acquired intangible assets consisted of the following 

(useful life in years, $ in millions):

2023

2022

Estimated 
Useful 
Lives

Gross
Carrying
Amount

Accumulated
Amortization

Net
Carrying
Amount

Gross
Carrying
Amount

Accumulated
Amortization

Net
Carrying
Amount

9 - 20
4 - 10
3 - 10

$ 

3,186  $ 
94 
72 
3,352 

$ 

(1,897)  $ 
(84) 
(46) 
(2,027) 

1,289 
10 
26 
1,325 

3,186  $ 
94 
72 
3,352 

(1,664)  $ 
(78) 
(38) 
(1,780) 

1,522 
16 
34 
1,572 

887 
4,239  $ 

$ 

— 
(2,027)  $ 

887 
2,212 

$ 

887 
4,239  $ 

— 
(1,780)  $ 

887 
2,459 

Finite-Lived:

Customer programs
Customer relationships
Other

Total finite-lived intangibles
Indefinite-Lived:

Trademark

Total acquired intangibles

Acquired  finite-lived  intangible  assets  are  amortized  to  expense  primarily  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  their  estimated 

useful lives.

Amortization expense for acquired finite-lived intangible assets was $247 million, $248 million and $285 million in 2023, 
2022 and 2021. Estimated future amortization expense is as follows: $244 million in 2024; $221 million in 2025; $154 million
in 2026; $153 million in 2027; and $148 million in 2028.

76

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 8 – Leases

We generally enter into operating lease agreements for facilities, land and equipment. Our ROU operating lease assets were 
$1.1  billion  at  December  31,  2023.  Operating  lease  liabilities  were  $1.2  billion,  of  which  $862  million  were  classified  as 
noncurrent, at December 31, 2023. New ROU operating lease assets and liabilities entered into during 2023 were $170 million. 
The weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate for our operating leases were approximately 7 years and 2.9% at 
December 31, 2023.

We recognized operating lease expense of $273 million in 2023 and $275 million in both 2022 and 2021. In addition, we 
made  cash  payments  of  $267  million  for  operating  leases  during  2023,  which  are  included  in  cash  flows  from  operating 
activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows.

Future minimum lease commitments at December 31, 2023 were as follows (in millions):

2024

339 

2025

2026

2027

2028

Thereafter

$ 

223 

$ 

172 

$ 

136 

$ 

109 

$ 

327 

Total

Operating leases

$  1,306 

$ 

Less: imputed interest

129 

Total

$  1,177 

Note 9 – Income Taxes

Income Tax Provisions

Federal and foreign income tax expense for continuing operations consisted of the following (in millions):

2023

2022

2021

Federal income tax expense (benefit):

Current
Deferred

Total federal income tax expense
Foreign income tax expense (benefit):

Current
Deferred

Total foreign income tax expense
Total federal and foreign income tax expense

$  1,574  $  1,618  $  1,325 
(194) 
1,131 

(503)   
1,071 

(776)   
842 

102 
5 
107 
$  1,178  $ 

87 
93 
19 
11 
104 
106 
948  $  1,235 

Our total net state income tax expense was $115 million for 2023, $124 million for 2022, and $195 million for 2021. State 
income taxes are allowable costs in establishing prices for the products and services we sell to the U.S. Government. Therefore, 
state income tax expenses are included in our cost of sales, as general and administrative costs. As a result, the impact of certain 
transactions on our operating profit and of other matters presented in these consolidated financial statements is disclosed net of 
state income taxes. 

77

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax expense to actual income tax expense for continuing operations is 

as follows (in millions):

Income tax expense at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate

Research and development tax credit
Foreign derived intangible income deduction
Tax deductible dividends
Excess tax benefits for stock-based payment awards
Other, net 

Income tax expense

2023

2022

2021

Amount

Rate

Amount

Rate

Amount

Rate

$  1,701 
(227) 
(185) 
(69) 
(25) 
(17) 
$  1,178 

 21.0 % $  1,403 
(178) 
 (2.8) 
(176) 
 (2.3) 
(67) 
 (0.9) 
(42) 
 (0.3) 
8 
 (0.2) 
948 
 14.5 % $ 

 21.0 % $  1,585 
(118) 
 (2.7) 
(170) 
 (2.6) 
(65) 
 (1.0) 
(28) 
 (0.6) 
 0.1 
31 
 14.2 % $  1,235 

 21.0 %
 (1.6) 
 (2.3) 
 (0.9) 
 (0.4) 
 0.6 
 16.4 %

The rates for all periods benefited from research and development tax credits, tax deductions for foreign derived intangible 
income, dividends paid to our defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature and employee equity 
awards.

Uncertain Tax Positions

The change in unrecognized tax benefits were as follows (in millions):

Balance at January 1

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
Additions for tax positions of prior years
Reductions for tax positions of prior years
Settlements with tax authorities 
Other, net

Balance at December 31

2023
$  1,622  $ 

2022

69  $ 

50 
32 
(1,526)   
(33)   
1 

1,572 
5 
(2)   
(23)   
1 

$ 

146  $  1,622  $ 

2021
50 
23 
30 
(19) 
(14) 
(1) 
69 

As  of  December  31,  2022,  our  liabilities  associated  with  uncertain  tax  positions  were  $1.6  billion.  For  the  year  ended 
December  31,  2023,  our  liabilities  associated  with  uncertain  tax  positions  decreased  to  $146  million  with  a  corresponding 
decrease to net deferred tax assets primarily resulting from our analysis of IRS Notice 2023-63 released on September 8, 2023 
confirming  that certain  expenditures  incurred  in  the  performance  of  cost-type  contracts  are  not  subject  to  capitalization.  The 
reduction in uncertain tax positions had an immaterial impact to our effective tax rate. It is reasonably possible that within the 
next twelve months, our liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions may increase by an immaterial amount. 

This uncertain tax position will have an immaterial impact to our effective tax rate if recognized.

We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax expense. As of 

December 31, 2023 and 2022, our accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits were not material. 

78

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deferred Income Taxes

The primary components of our federal and foreign deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31 were as 

follows (in millions):

Deferred tax assets related to:

Pensions
Accrued compensation and benefits
Contract accounting methods
Research and development expenditures
Foreign company operating losses and credits
Other (a)
Valuation allowance
Deferred tax assets, net
Deferred tax liabilities related to:
Goodwill and intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Other (a)

Deferred tax liabilities
Net deferred tax assets
(a)

Includes deferred tax assets and liabilities related to lease liability and ROU asset.

2023

2022

1,485  $ 
731 
508 
1,251 
19 
487 
(32)   

4,449 

494 
415 
597 
1,506 
2,943  $ 

1,340 
718 
510 
2,268 
20 
471 
(31) 
5,296 

449 
503 
605 
1,557 
3,739 

$ 

$ 

We and our subsidiaries file federal income tax returns in the U.S. and income tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions. 
With few exceptions, the statute of limitations for these jurisdictions is no longer open for audit or examination for the years 
before 2016 with respect to various foreign jurisdictions and before 2018 for federal income taxes in the U.S. 

We  withdrew  from  the  IRS  Compliance  Assurance  Process  (CAP)  program  in  2022  starting  with  our  2021  tax  return. 
Examinations of the years 2018 to 2020 remain under IRS review. We are also subject to taxation in various states and foreign 
jurisdictions including Australia, Canada, India, Italy, Japan, Poland, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject 
to, audit or examination and additional assessments by the relevant authorities.

Our  federal  and  foreign  income  tax  payments,  net  of  refunds,  were  $1.8  billion  in  2023,  $1.6  billion  in  2022  and 

$1.4 billion in 2021. 

79

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 10 – Debt

Our total debt consisted of the following (in millions):

Notes

4.95% due 2025
3.55% due 2026
5.10% due 2027
4.45% due 2028
1.85% due 2030
3.90% due 2032
5.25% due 2033
4.75% due 2034
3.60% due 2035
4.50% and 6.15% due 2036
4.07% due 2042
3.80% due 2045
4.70% due 2046
2.80% due 2050
4.09% due 2052
4.15% due 2053
5.70% due 2054
5.20% due 2055
4.30% due 2062
5.90% due 2063
Other notes with rates from 4.85% to 8.50%, due 2024 to 2041

Total debt

Less: unamortized discounts and issuance costs

Total debt, net

Less: current portion

Long-term debt, net

Revolving Credit Facility

2023

2022

$ 

500  $ 

1,000 
750 
500 
400 
800 
1,000 
850 
500 
1,054 
1,336 
1,000 
1,326 
750 
1,578 
850 
1,000 
650 
650 
750 
1,479 
  18,723 

500 
1,000 
750 
— 
400 
800 
1,000 
— 
500 
1,054 
1,336 
1,000 
1,326 
750 
1,578 
850 
1,000 
— 
650 
750 
1,598 
  16,842 
(1,295) 
  15,547 
(118) 
$  17,291  $  15,429 

  17,459 

(1,264)   

(168)   

On  August  24,  2022,  we  entered  into  a  new  Revolving  Credit  Agreement  (the  “Revolving  Credit  Agreement”)  with 
various banks. The Revolving Credit Agreement consists of a $3.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility, with the 
option to increase the commitments under the credit facility by an additional amount of up to $500 million (for an aggregate 
amount  of  up  to  $3.5  billion),  subject  to  the  agreement  of  one  or  more  new  or  existing  lenders  to  provide  such  additional 
amounts and certain other customary conditions. Effective August 24, 2023, we extended the expiration date of the Revolving 
Credit  Agreement  from  August  24,  2027  to  August  24,  2028.  The  Revolving  Credit  Agreement  is  available  for  any  of  our 
lawful  corporate  purposes,  including  supporting  commercial  paper  borrowings.  Borrowings  under  the  Revolving  Credit 
Agreement  are  unsecured  and  bear  interest  at  rates  set  forth  in  the  Revolving  Credit  Agreement.  The  Revolving  Credit 
Agreement  contains  customary  representations,  warranties  and  covenants,  including  covenants  restricting  ours  and  certain  of 
our subsidiaries’ ability to encumber assets and our ability to merge or consolidate with another entity. The Revolving Credit 
Agreement replaces our revolving credit agreement (the “Former Credit Agreement”), which had been scheduled to mature on 
August 24, 2026. The Former Credit Agreement, which had a total capacity of $3.0 billion and was undrawn, was terminated 
effective August 24, 2022. There were no borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement or the Former Credit Agreement 
at December 31, 2023 and 2022. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in 
the Revolving Credit Agreement and Former Credit Agreement, as well as in our debt agreements.

Commercial Paper

We have agreements in place with financial institutions to provide for the issuance of commercial paper. The outstanding 
balance of commercial paper can fluctuate daily and the amount outstanding during the period may be greater or less than the 

80

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amount reported at the end of the period. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2023. 
We may, as conditions warrant, issue commercial paper backed by our revolving credit agreement to manage the timing of cash 
flows.

Long Term Debt

On  May  25,  2023,  we  issued  a  total  of  $2.0  billion  of  senior  unsecured  notes,  consisting  of  $500  million  aggregate 
principal  amount  of  4.45%  Notes  due  May  15,  2028  (the  “2028  Notes”),  $850  million  aggregate  principal  amount  of  4.75% 
Notes due February 15, 2034 (the “2034 Notes”) and $650 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% Notes due February 15, 
2055 (the “2055 Notes” and, together with the 2028 Notes and 2034 Notes, the “Notes”) in a registered public offering. Net 
proceeds of $1,975 million were received from the offering after deducting pricing discounts and debt issuance costs, which are 
being  amortized  and  recorded  as  interest  expense  over  the  term  of  the  Notes.  We  will  pay  interest  on  the  2028  Notes  semi-
annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 with the first payment to be made on November 15, 2023. Additionally, we 
will pay interest on the 2034 Notes and 2055 Notes on February 15 and August 15 of each year with the first payment made on 
August 15, 2023. We may, at our option, redeem the Notes of any series in whole or in part at any time and from time to time at 
a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or an applicable make-
whole amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. The Notes rank equally in right of payment with all 
of our existing unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.

On  October  24,  2022,  we  issued  a  total  of  $4.0  billion  of  senior  unsecured  notes,  consisting  of  $500  million  aggregate 
principal amount of 4.95% Notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes”), $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.10% Notes due 
2027 (the “2027 Notes”), $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Notes due 2033 (the “2033 Notes”), $1.0 billion 
aggregate  principal  amount  of  5.70%  Notes  due  2054  (the  “2054  Notes”)  and  $750  million  aggregate  principal  amount  of 
5.90%  Notes  due  2063  (the  “2063  Notes”  and,  together  with  the  2025  Notes,  the  2027  Notes,  the  2033  Notes  and  the  2054 
Notes,  the  “October  2022  Notes”)  in  a  registered  public  offering.  We  will  pay  interest  on  the  2025  Notes  semi-annually  in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year with the first payment made on April 15, 2023. We will pay interest on the 
2033 Notes semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year with the first payment made on January 15, 2023. 
We will pay interest on each of 2027 Notes, 2054 Notes and 2063 Notes semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 
of  each  year  with  the  first  payment  made  on  May  15,  2023.  We  may,  at  our  option,  redeem  the  October  2022  Notes  of  any 
series,  in  whole  or  in  part,  at  any  time  at  the  redemption  prices  equal  to  the  greater  of  100%  of  the  principal  amount  of  the 
October  2022  Notes  to  be  redeemed  or  an  applicable  “make-whole”  amount,  plus  accrued  and  unpaid  interest  to  the  date  of 
redemption.  We  used  the  net  proceeds  from  this  offering  to  enter  into  an  accelerated  share  repurchase  (ASR)  agreement  to 
repurchase $4.0 billion of our common stock.

On May 5, 2022, we issued a total of $2.3 billion of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $800 million aggregate principal 
amount of 3.90% Notes due June 15, 2032 (the “2032 Notes”), $850 million aggregate principal amount of 4.15% Notes due 
June 15, 2053 (the “2053 Notes”) and $650 million aggregate principal amount of 4.30% Notes due June 15, 2062 (the “2062 
Notes” and, together with the 2032 Notes and 2053 Notes, the “May 2022 Notes”) in a registered public offering. Net proceeds 
received  from  the  offering  were  after  deducting  pricing  discounts  and  debt  issuance  costs,  which  are  being  amortized  and 
recorded as interest expense over the term of the May 2022 Notes. We will pay interest on the May 2022 Notes semi-annually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year with the first payment made on June 15, 2022. We may, at our option, 
redeem the May 2022 Notes of any series, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, at a redemption price equal to 
the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the May 2022 Notes to be redeemed or an applicable make-whole amount, plus 
accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.

On May 11, 2022, we used the net proceeds from the May 2022 Notes to redeem all of the outstanding $500 million in 
aggregate principal amount of our 3.10% Notes due 2023, $750 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.90% Notes due 
2025,  and  the  remaining  balance  of  the  net  proceeds  to  redeem  $1.0  billion  of  our  outstanding  $2.0  billion  in  aggregate 
principal amount of our 3.55% Notes due 2026 at their redemption price. We paid make-whole premiums of $13.9 million in 
connection with the early extinguishments of debt. We incurred losses of $34 million ($26 million, or $0.10 per share, after-tax) 
on these transactions related to early extinguishments of debt, additional interest expense and other related charges, which was 
recorded in other non-operating (expense) income, net in our consolidated statements of earnings.

We  made  interest  payments  of  approximately  $832  million,  $573  million  and  $543  million  during  the  years  ended 

December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021.

81

Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit Plans

Plan Descriptions

Many of our employees and retirees participate in various postretirement benefit plans including defined benefit pension 
plans, retiree medical and life insurance plans, defined contribution retirement savings plans, and other postemployment plans. 
Substantially all of our postretirement benefit obligations relate to U.S. based defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical 
and life insurance plans. The majority of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans provide for benefits within limits imposed by 
federal tax law (referred to as qualified plans). However, certain of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans provide for benefits 
in excess of qualified plan limits imposed by federal tax law (referred to as nonqualified plans). 

Salaried employees hired after December 31, 2005 are not eligible to participate in our qualified defined benefit pension 
plans, but are eligible to participate in a qualified defined contribution plan and other retirement savings plans for which they 
may  qualify.  They  also  have  the  ability  to  participate  in  our  retiree  medical  plans,  but  we  do  not  subsidize  the  cost  of  their 
participation in those plans as we do with employees hired before January 1, 2006. Over the last few years, we have negotiated 
similar changes with various labor organizations such that new union represented employees do not participate in our defined 
benefit pension plans. Our defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees were fully frozen effective January 1, 2020, at 
which time such employees no longer earn additional benefits under the defined benefit pension plans and were transitioned to 
a defined contribution retirement savings plan. 

We continue to take actions to mitigate the effect of our defined benefit pension plans on our financial results by reducing 
the  volatility  and  size  of  our  net  pension  obligations.  During  the  fourth  quarter  of  2023,  a  voluntary  offering  was  made  to 
certain former employees who had not yet commenced receiving their vested benefit payments. Total settlement payments of 
$414  million  for  approximately  6,500  participants  were  made  from  the  defined  benefit  pension  trust  with  a  similar 
corresponding  reduction  in  benefit  obligation.  During  the  second  quarter  of  2022,  we  purchased  group  annuity  contracts  to 
transfer  $4.3  billion  of  gross  defined  benefit  pension  obligations  and  related  plan  assets  to  an  insurance  company  for 
approximately  13,600  U.S.  retirees  and  beneficiaries.  In  connection  with  this  transaction,  we  recognized  a  noncash,  non-
operating pension settlement charge of $1.5 billion for the affected plans in the quarter ended June 26, 2022, which represents 
the accelerated recognition of actuarial losses that were included in the accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) account 
within  stockholders’  equity.  Similarly,  during  the  third  quarter  of  2021,  we  purchased  group  annuity  contracts  to  transfer 
$4.9  billion  of  gross  defined  benefit  pension  obligations  and  related  plan  assets  to  an  insurance  company  for  approximately 
18,000 U.S. retirees and beneficiaries, and in connection recognized a noncash pension settlement charge of $1.7 billion. 

Qualified Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Plans

FAS Income (Expense) 

The pretax FAS income (expense) related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life 

insurance plans included the following (in millions):

Operating:

Service cost
Non-operating:
Interest cost
Expected return on plan assets
Recognized net actuarial (losses) gains
Amortization of prior service credits (costs) 
Settlement charge

Qualified Defined
Benefit Pension Plans 
2023

2022

2021

Retiree Medical and
Life Insurance Plans
2023

2022

2021

$ 

(65)  $ 

(87)  $ 

(106) 

$ 

(5)  $ 

(9)  $ 

(13) 

(1,459)   
1,722 
(168)   
348 
— 

(1,289)   
1,854 
(425)   
359 
(1,470)   

(1,220) 
2,146 
(902) 
349 
(1,665) 

(68)   
103 
31 
(10)   
— 

(49)   
136 
46 
(27)   
— 

(53) 
141 
— 
(37) 
— 

51 
38 

Non-service FAS income (expense) 

Total FAS income (expense) 

443 
(1,292) 
(971)   
378  $  (1,058)  $  (1,398) 

$ 

$ 

56 
51  $ 

106 
97  $ 

82

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We record the service cost component of FAS income (expense) for our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree 
medical and life insurance plans in the cost of sales accounts; the non-service components of our FAS income (expense) for our 
qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  in  the  non-service  FAS  pension  income  (expense)  account;  and  the  non-service 
components of our FAS income (expense) for our retiree medical and life insurance plans as part of the other non-operating 
income (expense), net account on our consolidated statements of earnings.

Funded Status

The  following  table  provides  a  reconciliation  of  benefit  obligations,  plan  assets  and  net  (unfunded)  funded  status  of  our 

qualified defined benefit pension plans and our retiree medical and life insurance plans (in millions):

Change in benefit obligation

Beginning balance (a)

Service cost
Interest cost
Actuarial losses (gains) (b)
Settlements (c)
Plan amendments
Benefits paid
Medicare Part D subsidy
Participants’ contributions

Ending balance (a)
Change in plan assets

Beginning balance at fair value

Actual return on plan assets (d)
Settlements (c)
Benefits paid
Company contributions
Medicare Part D subsidy
Participants’ contributions
Ending balance at fair value
(Unfunded) funded status of the plans

Qualified Defined 
Benefit Pension Plans
2022

2023

Retiree Medical and
Life Insurance Plans
2022

2023

$  28,698 
65 
1,459 
731 
(414) 
6 
(1,586) 
— 
— 
$  28,959 

$  23,228 
1,572 
(414) 
(1,586) 
— 
— 
— 
$  22,800 
$  (6,159) 

$  43,447 
87 
1,289 
  (10,270) 
(4,309) 
186 
(1,732) 
— 
— 
$  28,698 

$  35,192 
(5,923) 
(4,309) 
(1,732) 
— 
— 
— 
$  23,228 
$  (5,470) 

$  1,359 
5 
68 
27 
— 
1 
(192) 
1 
59 
$  1,328 

$  1,656 
190 
— 
(192) 
1 
1 
59 
$  1,715 
387 
$ 

$  1,839 
9 
49 
(396) 
— 
1 
(207) 
3 
61 
$  1,359 

$  2,169 
(381) 
— 
(207) 
11 
3 
61 
$  1,656 
297 
$ 

(a) Benefit  obligation  balances  represent  the  projected  benefit  obligation  for  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans,  which  is 
approximately  equal  to  accumulated  benefit  obligation,  and  accumulated  benefit  obligation  for  our  retiree  medical  and  life  insurance 
plans.

(b) Actuarial losses for our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2023 primarily reflect a decrease in the discount rate from 5.25% at 
December 31, 2022 to 5.00% at December 31, 2023, which increased benefit obligations by approximately $765 million. Actuarial losses 
for our retiree medical and life insurance plans in 2023 reflect a decrease in the discount rate from 5.25% at December 31, 2022 to 5.00%
at  December  31,  2023.  Actuarial  gains  for  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  in  2022  primarily  reflect  an  increase  in  the 
discount rate from 2.875% at December 31, 2021 to 5.25% at December 31, 2022, which decreased benefit obligations by $10.2 billion. 
Actuarial gains for our retiree medical and life insurance plans in 2022 reflect an increase in the discount rate from 2.750% at December 
31, 2021 to 5.25% at December 31, 2022, which decreased benefit obligations by $335 million.

(c) Qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  settlements  in  2023  include  $414  million  in  the  form  of  lump-sum  settlement  payments  to 
former  employees  who  had  not  commenced  receiving  their  vested  benefit  payments.  The  settlement  payments  had  no  impact  on  year 
2023  FAS  pension  income.  Qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plan  settlements  in  2022  represent  the  transfer  of  gross  defined  benefit 
pension obligations and related plan assets to insurance companies pursuant to group annuity contracts purchased in the second quarter 
of 2022 as described above.

(d) Actual return on plan assets for our qualified defined benefit pension plans was approximately 7% in 2023 and (18)% in 2022.

We are required to recognize the net funded status of each postretirement benefit plan on a standalone basis as either an 
asset or a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of 
each plan’s assets and the benefit obligation. Each year we measure the fair value of each plan’s assets and benefit obligation on 
December 31, consistent with our fiscal year end. The fair value of each plan’s benefit obligation reflects assumptions in effect 

83

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as of the measurement date as described below. For certain of our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical 
and life insurance plans the plan assets may exceed the benefit obligation, for which we recognize the net amount as an asset on 
our  consolidated  balance  sheet.  Conversely,  for  most  of  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  the  benefit  obligation 
exceeds plan assets, for which we recognize the net amount as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet.

The  following  table  provides  amounts  recognized  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheets  related  to  our  qualified  defined 

benefit pension plans and our retiree medical and life insurance plans (in millions):

Other noncurrent assets
Accrued pension liabilities
Net (unfunded) funded status of the plans

Qualified Defined 
Benefit Pension Plans
2022
2 
(5,472) 
$  (5,470) 

2023
3 
(6,162) 
$  (6,159) 

$ 

$ 

Retiree Medical and
Life Insurance Plans
2022
297 
— 
297 

2023
387 
— 
387 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Differences  between  the  actual  return  and  expected  return  on  plan  assets  during  the  year,  and  changes  in  the  benefit 
obligation  for  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  and  retiree  medical  and  life  insurance  plans  due  to  changes  in  the 
annual valuation assumptions, generate actuarial gains or losses. Additionally, the benefit obligation for our qualified defined 
benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life insurance plans may increase or decrease as a result of plan amendments that 
affect  the  benefits  to  plan  participants  related  to  service  for  periods  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  the  amendment,  which 
generates  prior  service  costs  or  credits.  Actuarial  gains  or  losses,  and  prior  service  costs  or  credits,  are  initially  deferred  in 
accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  and  subsequently  amortized  for  each  plan  into  income  or  (expense)  on  a  straight-line 
basis either over the average remaining life expectancy of plan participants or over the average remaining service period of plan 
participants, subject to certain thresholds.

The following table provides the amount of actuarial gains or losses, and prior service costs or credits, recognized in 
accumulated other comprehensive loss related to qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life insurance 
plans at December 31 (in millions):

Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) pre-tax related to:

Net actuarial (losses) gains
Prior service (costs) credits
Total
Estimated tax
Net amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (loss)

Qualified Defined 
Benefit Pension Plans
2022

2023

Retiree Medical and
Life Insurance Plans
2022

2023

$ (10,999) 
(15) 
$ (11,014) 
2,339 
$  (8,675) 

$ (10,287) 
339 
$  (9,948) 
2,117 
$  (7,831) 

$ 

$ 

$ 

416 
(2) 
414 
(87) 
327 

$ 

$ 

$ 

387 
(10) 
377 
(79) 
298 

84

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  following  table  provides  the  changes  recognized  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss,  net  of  tax,  for  actuarial 
gains or losses and prior service costs or credits due to differences between the actual return and expected return on plan assets 
and  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  benefit  obligation  recognized  in  connection  with  our  annual  remeasurement  and  the 
amortization during the year for our qualified defined benefit pension plans, retiree medical and life insurance plans, and certain 
other plans (in millions):

Incurred but Not Yet
Recognized in 
FAS Expense

Recognition of
Previously
Deferred Amounts

2023

2022

2021

2023

2022

2021

Actuarial gains and (losses)

Qualified defined benefit pension plans
Retiree medical and life insurance plans
Other plans

Net prior service credit and (cost)

Qualified defined benefit pension plans
Retiree medical and life insurance plans
Other plans

Total

$ 

$ 

(698)  $  1,952  $  2,987 
342 
76 
3,405 

(95)   
165 
2,022 

47 
(33)   
(684)   

(5)   
(1)   
1 
(5)   

(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
(689)  $  1,873  $  3,404 

(146)   
(1)   
(2)   
(149)   

$ 

$ 

(133)  $  (1,490)  $  (2,019) 
— 
36 
(24) 
(39)   
(2,043) 
(1,493)   

25 
(8)   
(116)   

274 

(8)   
(1)   

274 
283 
(29) 
(22)   
11 
7 
265 
256 
268 
149  $  (1,225)  $  (1,787) 

Assumptions Used to Determine Benefit Obligations and FAS (Expense) Income

We measure the fair value of each plan’s assets and benefit obligation on December 31, consistent with our fiscal year end. 
Benefit obligations as of the end of each year reflect assumptions in effect as of those dates. Expense is based on assumptions in 
effect at the end of the preceding year or from the most recent interim remeasurement. The assumptions used to determine the 
benefit obligations at December 31 of each year and FAS expense for each subsequent year were as follows:

Qualified Defined Benefit
Pension Plans

Retiree Medical and
Life Insurance Plans
2023

2023

Weighted average discount rate (a)
Expected long-term rate of return on assets (a)
Health care trend rate assumed for next year
Ultimate health care trend rate
Year ultimate health care trend rate is reached
(a) A pension discount rate of 4.75% was used for the applicable plans following the transaction and remeasurement recognized in the 

2021
 5.000 %  5.250 %  2.750 %
 6.50 %
 6.50 %  6.50 %
 7.50 %
 8.00 %  7.25 %
 4.50 %
 4.50 %  4.50 %

2021
 5.000 %  5.250 %  2.875 %
 6.50 %
 6.50 %  6.50 %

2034

2022

2022

2034

2038

second quarter of 2022.

The long-term rate of return assumption represents the expected long-term rate of earnings on the funds invested, or to be 
invested, to provide for the benefits included in the benefit obligations. That assumption is based on several factors including 
historical market index returns, the anticipated long-term allocation of plan assets, the historical return data for the trust funds, 
plan  expenses  and  the  potential  to  outperform  market  index  returns.  The  actual  investment  return  for  our  qualified  defined 
benefit plans during 2023 was approximately 7.00%.

85

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plan Assets

Our  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Lockheed  Martin  Investment  Management  Company  (LMIMCo),  has  the  fiduciary 
responsibility for making investment decisions related to the assets of our postretirement benefit plans. LMIMCo’s investment 
objectives for the assets of these plans are (1) to minimize the net present value of expected funding contributions; (2) to ensure 
there  is  a  high  probability  that  each  plan  meets  or  exceeds  our  actuarial  long-term  rate  of  return  assumptions;  and  (3)  to 
diversify  assets  to  minimize  the  risk  of  large  losses.  The  nature  and  duration  of  benefit  obligations,  along  with  assumptions 
concerning  asset  class  returns  and  return  correlations,  are  considered  when  determining  an  appropriate  asset  allocation  to 
achieve the investment objectives. Investment policies and strategies governing the assets of the plans are designed to achieve 
investment  objectives  within  prudent  risk  parameters.  Risk  management  practices  include  the  use  of  external  investment 
managers;  the  maintenance  of  a  portfolio  diversified  by  asset  class,  investment  approach  and  security  holdings;  and  the 
maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet benefit obligations as they come due.

LMIMCo’s investment policies require that asset allocations of postretirement benefit plans be maintained within the 

following approximate ranges:

Asset Class

Cash and cash equivalents
Global Equity
Fixed income
Alternative investments:
Private equity funds
Real estate funds
Hedge funds
Commodities

Asset Allocation
Ranges
0-20%
15-65%
10-60%

5-25%
5-15%
0-20%
0-10%

86

The following table presents the fair value of the assets of our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical 
and  life  insurance  plans  by  asset  category  and  their  level  within  the  fair  value  hierarchy  (see  “Note  1  –  Organization  and 
Significant Accounting Policies - Investments” for definition of these levels), which we are required to disclose even though 
these assets are not separately recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Certain investments are measured at their Net Asset 
Value (NAV) per share because such investments do not have readily determinable fair values and, therefore, are not required 
to  be  categorized  in  the  fair  value  hierarchy.  Assets  measured  at  NAV  have  been  included  in  the  table  below  to  permit 
reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to amounts presented in the funded status table above.

December 31, 2023

December 31, 2022

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Level 1

Level 2 Level 3

$  1,789  $  1,789  $  —  $  — 

$  1,952  $  1,952  $  —  $  — 

2,715 
1,853 
163 

— 
— 

— 

2,802 
1,875 
423 

4,510 
2,376 

1,120 
(1,284) 
1,949 

8 
— 
260 

4,495 
2,376 

1,120 
(1,284) 
725 

79 
22 
— 

15 
— 

— 

1,161 
$ 15,560  $  6,583  $  7,700  $  1,277 

63 

(in millions)
Investments measured at fair value
Cash and cash equivalents (a)
Equity (a):

U.S. equity securities
International equity securities
Commingled equity funds

Fixed income (a):

Corporate debt securities
U.S. Government securities
U.S. Government-sponsored 

enterprise securities
Interest rate swaps, net
Other fixed income investments (b)

Total
Investments measured at NAV
Commingled equity funds
Other fixed income investments
Private equity funds
Real estate funds
Hedge funds
Total investments measured at NAV  
Loan, net (c)
(Payables) Receivables, net
Total

— 
826 
4,951 
3,267 
847 

9,891 
(497) 
(439) 
$ 24,515 

3,162 
2,298 
459 

4,491 
2,219 

3,060 
2,245 
183 

6 
17 
276 

— 
— 

  4,272 
  2,219 

96 
36 
— 

219 
— 

572 
(1,165)   
1,980 

— 
— 
  1,219 
$ 15,968  $  7,521  $  6,877  $  1,570 

572 
  (1,165)   
680 

— 
— 
81 

— 
730 
4,703 
3,383 
689 

9,505 
(497) 
(92) 
$ 24,884 

(a) Cash and cash equivalents, equity securities and fixed income securities include derivative assets and liabilities with fair values that were 
not material as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. LMIMCo’s investment policies restrict the use of derivatives to either establish long or 
short exposures for purposes consistent with applicable investment mandate guidelines or to hedge risks to the extent of a plan’s current 
exposure to such risks. Most derivative transactions are settled on a daily basis.
Level 3 investments include $1.1 billion at both December 31, 2023 and at December 31, 2022 related to buy-in contracts.
The Lockheed Martin Corporation Master Retirement Trust (MRT) obtained a loan from a third-party financial institution, collateralized 
by private equity investments, to invest in fixed income securities.

(b)

(c)

Changes in the fair value of plan assets categorized as Level 3 during 2023 and 2022 were not significant.

Cash  equivalents  are  mostly  comprised  of  short-term  money-market  instruments  and  are  valued  at  cost,  which 

approximates fair value.

U.S.  equity  securities  and  international  equity  securities  categorized  as  Level  1  are  traded  on  active  national  and 
international exchanges and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year. For U.S. equity securities and 
international  equity  securities  not  traded  on  an  active  exchange,  or  if  the  closing  price  is  not  available,  the  trustee  obtains 
indicative  quotes  from  a  pricing  vendor,  broker  or  investment  manager.  These  securities  are  categorized  as  Level  2  if  the 
custodian obtains corroborated quotes from a pricing vendor or categorized as Level 3 if the custodian obtains uncorroborated 
quotes from a broker or investment manager.

87

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commingled equity funds categorized as Level 1 are traded on active national and international exchanges and are valued 
at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year. For commingled equity funds not traded on an active exchange, or if 
the  closing  price  is  not  available,  the  trustee  obtains  indicative  quotes  from  a  pricing  vendor,  broker  or  investment  manager. 
These securities are categorized as Level 2 if the custodian obtains corroborated quotes from a pricing vendor.

Fixed  income  investments  categorized  as  Level  1  are  publicly  exchange-traded.  Fixed  income  investments,  including 
interest rate swaps, categorized as Level 2 are valued by the trustee using pricing models that use verifiable observable market 
data (e.g., interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals and credit spreads), bids provided by brokers 
or dealers or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. Fixed income investments are categorized as Level 3 when 
valuations  using  observable  inputs  are  unavailable.  The  trustee  typically  obtains  pricing  based  on  indicative  quotes  or  bid 
evaluations from vendors, brokers or the investment manager. In addition, certain other fixed income investments categorized 
as  Level  3  are  valued  using  a  discounted  cash  flow  approach.  Significant  inputs  include  projected  annuity  payments  and  the 
discount rate applied to those payments.

Certain  commingled  equity  and  fixed  income  funds,  consisting  of  underlying  equity  and  fixed  income  securities, 
respectively, are valued using the NAV practical expedient. The NAV valuations are based on the underlying investments and 
typically  redeemable  within  90  days.  The  NAV  is  the  total  value  of  the  fund  divided  by  the  number  of  the  fund’s  shares 
outstanding.

Private equity funds consist of partnerships and similar vehicles. The NAV is based on valuation models of the underlying 
securities, which includes unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated using verifiable observable market data. These funds 
typically have terms between eight and 12 years.

Real  estate  funds  consist  of  partnerships  and  similar  vehicles,  for  which  the  NAV  is  based  on  valuation  models  and 

periodic appraisals. These funds typically have terms between eight and 10 years.

Hedge funds generally consist of separate accounts and commingled funds, for which the NAV is generally based on the 
valuation of the underlying investments. Redemptions in hedge funds generally range from a minimum of one month to several 
months.

Contributions and Expected Benefit Payments

The required funding of our qualified defined benefit pension plans is determined in accordance with ERISA, as amended, 
and  in  a  manner  consistent  with  CAS  and  Internal  Revenue  Code  rules.  We  made  no  contributions  to  our  qualified  defined 
benefit pension plans in 2023 and do not plan to make contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2024.

The following table presents estimated future benefit payments as of December 31, 2023 (in millions):

Qualified defined benefit pension plans
Retiree medical and life insurance plans

$ 

2024
1,790  $ 
130 

2025
1,860  $ 
130 

2026
1,920  $ 
120 

2027
1,970  $ 
120 

2028
2,000  $ 
110 

2029– 2033
10,020 
500 

We maintain various trusts to fund the obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and 
life insurance plans. We expect the estimated future benefit payments will be paid using assets in the trusts established for the 
plans.

Nonqualified Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Other Postemployment Plans

We sponsor nonqualified defined benefit pension plans to provide benefits in excess of qualified plan limits imposed by 
federal tax law. The gross benefit obligation for these plans was $1.0 billion as of both December 31, 2023 and 2022, most of 
which  was  recorded  in  the  other  noncurrent  liabilities  account  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheet.  We  have  set  aside  certain 
assets totaling $615 million and $595 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 in a separate trust that we expect to use to pay 
the  benefit  obligations  under  our  nonqualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans,  most  of  which  were  recorded  in  the  other 
noncurrent  assets  account  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheet.  We  record  the  gross  assets  on  our  consolidated  balance  sheet, 
rather than netting such assets with the benefit obligation for our nonqualified defined benefit pension plans, because the assets 
held  are  diversified  and  legally  the  assets  may  be  used  to  settle  other  obligations  or  claims  (although  that  is  not  our  intent). 
Actuarial  losses  and  unrecognized  prior  service  credits  related  to  our  nonqualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  that  were 
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, pretax, totaled $347 million and $331 million at December 31, 2023 and 
2022. We recognized pretax pension expense of $64 million in 2023, $81 million in 2022 and $56 million in 2021 related to our 
nonqualified defined benefit pension plans. The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and FAS expense for our 

88

 
 
 
 
 
 
nonqualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans  are  similar  to  the  assumptions  for  our  qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plans 
described above.

We  also  sponsor  other  postemployment  and  foreign  benefit  plans,  which  are  accounted  for  similar  to  defined  benefit 
pension  plans.  The  benefit  obligations,  assets,  expense,  and  amounts  recorded  in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss  for 
other postemployment and foreign benefit plans were not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Defined Contribution Retirement Savings Plans

We maintain a number of defined contribution retirement savings plans, most with 401(k) features, that cover substantially 
all of our employees. Under the provisions of these plans, employees can make contributions on a before-tax and after-tax basis 
to  investment  funds  to  save  for  retirement.  For  most  plans,  we  make  employer  contributions  to  the  employee  accounts  that 
comprise  of  a  company  non-elective  contribution  and  a  matching  contribution.  Company  matching  contributions  are 
automatically invested in an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) fund, which primarily invests in shares of our common 
stock.  Plan  participants  can  transfer  from  the  ESOP  fund  into  any  investment  option  provided  by  the  respective  plan.  Our 
contributions to defined contribution retirement savings plans were $1.2 billion in 2023 and $1.1 billion in both 2022 and 2021. 
Our  defined  contribution  retirement  savings  plans  held  26.6  million  and  27.4  million  shares  of  our  common  stock  at 
December 31, 2023 and 2022.

Note 12 – Stockholders’ Equity

At  December  31,  2023  and  2022,  our  authorized  capital  was  composed  of  1.5  billion  shares  of  common  stock  and 
50 million shares of series preferred stock. Of the 242 million and 255 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding 
as  of  December  31,  2023  and  December  31,  2022,  240  million  and  254  million  shares  were  considered  outstanding  for 
consolidated  balance  sheet  presentation  purposes;  the  remaining  shares  were  held  in  a  separate  trust.  No  shares  of  preferred 
stock were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2023 or 2022.

Repurchases of Common Stock

During  2023,  we  repurchased  13.4  million  shares  of  our  common  stock  for  $6.0  billion  pursuant  to  accelerated  share 
repurchase  (ASR)  agreements  and  open  market  purchases.  We  also  retired  an  additional  1.5  million  shares  received  for  no 
additional consideration in the first quarter of 2023 upon final settlement of an ASR agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 
2022. During 2022, we repurchased 18.3 million shares of our common stock for $7.9 billion, including 13.9 million shares of 
our common stock repurchased pursuant to ASR agreements and the remainder in open market purchases.

The  total  remaining  authorization  for  future  common  share  repurchases  under  our  share  repurchase  program  was 
$10.0 billion as of December 31, 2023, including a $6.0 billion increase to the program authorized by our Board of Directors in 
October  2023.  As  we  repurchase  our  common  shares,  we  reduce  common  stock  for  the  $1  of  par  value  of  the  shares 
repurchased, with the excess purchase price over par value recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. If additional 
paid-in capital is reduced to zero, we record the remainder of the excess purchase price over par value as a reduction of retained 
earnings.

Dividends

We paid dividends totaling $3.1 billion ($12.15 per share) in 2023, $3.0 billion ($11.40 per share) in 2022 and $2.9 billion 
($10.60 per share) in 2021. We paid quarterly dividends of $3.00 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2023 and 
$3.15 per share during the fourth quarter of 2023; $2.80 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2022 and $3.00 per 
share during the fourth quarter of 2022; and $2.60 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2021 and $2.80 per share 
during the fourth quarter of 2021.

89

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

Changes in the balance of AOCL, net of taxes, consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at December 31, 2020

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications
Amounts reclassified from AOCL
Pension settlement charge (b)
Recognition of net actuarial losses
Amortization of net prior service credits
Other

Total reclassified from AOCL

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

Balance at December 31, 2021

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications
Amounts reclassified from AOCL
Pension settlement charge (b)
Recognition of net actuarial losses
Amortization of net prior service credits
Other

Total reclassified from AOCL

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

Balance at December 31, 2022

Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications
Amounts reclassified from AOCL

Recognition of net actuarial losses
Amortization of net prior service credits
Other

Total reclassified from AOCL

Total other comprehensive (loss) income

Postretirement  
Benefit Plans (a)  
$ 

(16,155)  $ 
3,404 

Other, net

34  $ 
(85)   

1,310 
733 
(256)   
— 
1,787 
5,191 
(10,964)   
1,873 

1,156 
337 
(268)   
— 
1,225 
3,098 
(7,866)   
(689)   

116 
(265)   
— 
(149)   
(838)   
(8,704)  $ 

— 
— 
— 
9 
9 
(76)   
(42)   
(159)   

— 
— 
— 
44 
44 
(115)   
(157)   
23 

— 
— 
35 
35 
58 
(99)  $ 

AOCL
(16,121) 
3,319 

1,310 
733 
(256) 
9 
1,796 
5,115 
(11,006) 
1,714 

1,156 
337 
(268) 
44 
1,269 
2,983 
(8,023) 
(666) 

116 
(265) 
35 
(114) 
(780) 
(8,803) 

Balance at December 31, 2023

$ 

(a) AOCL  related  to  postretirement  benefit  plans  is  shown  net  of  tax  benefits  of  $2.3  billion  at  December  31,  2023, $2.1  billion  at 
December 31, 2022 and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2021. These tax benefits include amounts recognized on our income tax returns as 
current deductions and deferred income taxes, which will be recognized on our tax returns in future years. See “Note 9 – Income Taxes” 
and “Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit Plans” for more information on our income taxes and postretirement benefit plans.

(b) During  2022  and  2021,  we  recognized  a  noncash,  non-operating  pension  settlement  charge  of  $1.5  billion  ($1.2  billion,  or  $4.33  per 
share,  after-tax)  and  $1.7  billion  ($1.3  billion,  $4.72  per  share,  after-tax)  related  to  the  accelerated  recognition  of  actuarial  losses 
included in AOCL for certain defined benefit pension plans that purchased  a group  annuity contract from an insurance  company (see 
“Note 11 – Postretirement Benefit Plans”).

90

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 13 – Stock-Based Compensation

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

Under  plans  approved  by  our  stockholders,  we  are  authorized  to  grant  key  employees  stock-based  incentive  awards, 

including options to purchase common stock, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, PSUs or other stock units. 

At December 31, 2023, inclusive of the shares reserved for outstanding RSUs and PSUs, we had approximately 8.4 million
shares reserved for issuance under the plans. At December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding options to purchase common stock 
and  have  not  issued  stock  options  to  employees  since  2012.  At  December  31,  2023,  approximately  6.1  million  of  the  shares 
reserved  for  issuance  remained  available  for  grant  under  our  stock-based  compensation  plans.  We  issue  new  shares  when 
restrictions  on  RSUs  and  PSUs  have  been  satisfied.  The  minimum  vesting  period  under  our  equity  compensation  plan  for 
employees generally is one year, although most RSUs granted annually to executives and other key employees vest over three 
years. Award agreements may provide for vesting periods between one and three years and in certain circumstances less than 
one year, pro-rated vesting periods or vesting following termination of employment in the case of death, disability, divestiture, 
retirement, change of control or layoff. The maximum term of any award is 10 years.

During 2023, 2022 and 2021, we recorded noncash stock-based compensation expense totaling $265 million, $238 million
and $227 million, which is included as a component of other unallocated, net on our consolidated statements of earnings. The 
net impact to earnings for the respective years was $209 million, $188 million and $179 million.

As of December 31, 2023, we had $223 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards, which is 
expected  to  be  recognized  over  a  weighted  average  period  of  1.8  years.  We  received  zero  cash  from  the  exercise  of  stock 
options during 2023, $8 million and $28 million during 2022 and 2021. In addition, our income tax liabilities for 2023, 2022
and  2021  were  reduced  by  $78  million,  $124  million  and  $67  million  due  to  recognized  tax  benefits  on  stock-based 
compensation arrangements.

Restricted Stock Units 

The following table summarizes activity related to nonvested RSUs:

Nonvested at December 31, 2022

Granted
Vested
Forfeited

Nonvested at December 31, 2023

Number
of RSUs
(In thousands)  

877 
563 
(472) 
(46) 
922 

Weighted Average
Grant-Date Fair
Value Per Share
371.17 
477.05 
418.36 
421.28 
409.17 

$ 

$ 

In 2023, we granted certain employees approximately 0.6 million RSUs with a weighted average grant-date fair value of 
$477.05  per  RSU.  The  grant-date  fair  value  of  these  RSUs  is  equal  to  the  closing  market  price  of  our  common  stock  on  the 
grant date less a discount to reflect the delay in payment of dividend-equivalent cash payments that are made only upon vesting, 
which occurs at least one year from the grant date and most often occurs three years from the grant date.

Performance Stock Units 

In  2023,  we  granted  certain  employees  PSUs  with  an  aggregate  target  award  of  approximately  0.1  million  shares  of  our 
common stock. The PSUs generally vest three years from the grant date based on continuous service, with the number of shares 
earned  (0%  to  200%  of  the  target  award)  depending  upon  the  extent  to  which  we  achieve  certain  financial  and  market 
performance targets measured over the period from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2025. About half of the PSUs were 
valued at a weighted average grant-date fair value of $477.45 per PSU in a manner similar to RSUs mentioned above as the 
financial  targets  are  based  on  our  operating  results.  The  remaining  PSUs  were  valued  at  a  weighted-average  grant-date  fair 
value of $509.11 per PSU using a Monte Carlo model as the performance target is related to our total shareholder return relative 
to our peer group. We recognize the grant-date fair value of these awards, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense 
ratably over the vesting period.

91

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 14 – Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

We are a party to litigation and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including matters arising 
under provisions relating to the protection of the environment, and are subject to contingencies related to certain businesses we 
previously owned. These types of matters could result in fines, penalties, cost reimbursements or contributions, compensatory 
or treble damages or non-monetary sanctions or relief. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of each of these 
matters,  including  the  legal  proceedings  described  below,  will  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  company  as  a  whole, 
notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any matter may have a material effect on our net earnings and cash flows in 
any particular interim reporting period. Among the factors that we consider in this assessment are the nature of existing legal 
proceedings and claims, the asserted or possible damages or loss contingency (if estimable), the progress of the case, existing 
law and precedent, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, our experience in similar cases and the experience 
of other companies, the facts available to us at the time of assessment and how we intend to respond to the proceeding or claim. 
Our assessment of these factors may change over time as individual proceedings or claims progress.

Although we cannot predict the outcome of legal or other proceedings with certainty, where there is at least a reasonable 
possibility  that  a  loss  may  have  been  incurred,  GAAP  requires  us  to  disclose  an  estimate  of  the  reasonably  possible  loss  or 
range of loss or make a statement that such an estimate cannot be made. We follow a thorough process in which we seek to 
estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, and only if we are unable to make such an estimate do we conclude and 
disclose that an estimate cannot be made. Accordingly, unless otherwise indicated below in our discussion of legal proceedings, 
a reasonably possible loss or range of loss associated with any individual legal proceeding cannot be estimated.

United States of America, ex rel. Patzer; Cimma v. Sikorsky Aircraft Corp., et al.

As a result of our acquisition of Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation (Sikorsky), we assumed the defense of and any potential 
liability  for  two  civil  False  Claims  Act  lawsuits  pending  in  the  U.S.  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of  Wisconsin.  In 
October  2014,  the  U.S.  Government  filed  a  complaint  in  intervention  in  the  first  suit,  which  was  brought  by  qui  tam  relator 
Mary Patzer, a former Derco Aerospace (Derco) employee. In May 2017, the U.S. Government filed a complaint in intervention 
in a second suit, which was brought by qui tam relator Peter Cimma, a former Sikorsky Support Services, Inc. (SSSI) employee. 
In November 2017, the Court consolidated the cases into a single action for discovery and trial.

The U.S. Government alleges that Sikorsky and two of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Derco and SSSI, violated the civil 
False Claims Act and the Truth in Negotiations Act in connection with a contract the U.S. Navy awarded to SSSI in June 2006 
to  support  the  Navy’s  T-34  and  T-44  fixed-wing  turboprop  training  aircraft.  SSSI  subcontracted  with  Derco,  primarily  to 
procure and manage spare parts for the training aircraft. The U.S. Government contends that SSSI overbilled the Navy on the 
contract as the result of Derco’s use of prohibited cost-plus-percentage-of-cost (CPPC) pricing to add profit and overhead costs 
as a percentage of the price of the spare parts that Derco procured and then sold to SSSI. The U.S. Government also alleges that 
Derco’s claims to SSSI, SSSI’s claims to the Navy, and SSSI’s yearly Certificates of Final Indirect Costs from 2006 through 
2012 were false and that SSSI submitted inaccurate cost or pricing data in violation of the Truth in Negotiations Act for a sole-
sourced, follow-on “bridge” contract. The U.S. Government’s complaints assert common law claims for breach of contract and 
unjust  enrichment.  On  November  29,  2021,  the  District  Court  granted  the  U.S.  Government’s  motion  for  partial  summary 
judgment, finding that the Derco-SSSI agreement was a CPPC contract. On October 17, 2023, the District Court ruled on the 
parties’  cross  motions  for  summary  judgment,  granting  some  motions  and  denying  others.  Trial  on  the  U.S.  Government’s 
remaining claims is scheduled for May 6, 2024.

We  believe  that  we  have  legal  and  factual  defenses  to  the  U.S.  Government’s  remaining  claims.  The  U.S.  Government 
seeks damages of approximately $52 million, subject to trebling, plus statutory penalties. Although we continue to evaluate our 
liability  and  exposure,  we  do  not  currently  believe  that  it  is  probable  that  we  will  incur  a  material  loss.  If,  contrary  to  our 
expectations, the U.S. Government prevails on the remaining issues in this matter and proves damages at or near $52 million 
and is successful in having such damages trebled, the outcome could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the 
period in which a liability is recognized and on our cash flows for the period in which any damages are paid.

Lockheed Martin v. Metropolitan Transportation Authority

On April 24, 2009, we filed a declaratory judgment action against the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority 
and its Capital Construction Company (collectively, the MTA) asking the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New 
York to find that the MTA is in material breach of our agreement based on the MTA’s failure to provide access to sites where 
work must be performed and the customer-furnished equipment necessary to complete the contract. The MTA filed an answer 
and  counterclaim  alleging  that  we  breached  the  contract  and  subsequently  terminated  the  contract  for  alleged  default.  The 
primary damages sought by the MTA are the costs to complete the contract and potential re-procurement costs. While we are 

92

unable  to  estimate  the  cost  of  another  contractor  to  complete  the  contract  and  the  costs  of  re-procurement,  we  note  that  our 
contract with the MTA had a total value of $323 million, of which $241 million was paid to us, and that the MTA is seeking 
damages  of  approximately  $190  million.  We  dispute  the  MTA’s  allegations  and  are  defending  against  them.  Additionally, 
following  an  investigation,  our  sureties  on  a  performance  bond  related  to  this  matter,  who  were  represented  by  independent 
counsel, concluded that the MTA’s termination of the contract was improper. Finally, our declaratory judgment action was later 
amended to include claims for monetary damages against the MTA of approximately $95 million. This matter was taken under 
submission by the District Court in December 2014, after a five-week bench trial and the filing of post-trial pleadings by the 
parties. We continue to await a decision from the District Court. Although this matter relates to our former Information Systems 
& Global Solutions (IS&GS) business, we retained responsibility for the litigation when we divested IS&GS in 2016.

Environmental Matters

We  are  involved  in  proceedings  and  potential  proceedings  relating  to  soil,  sediment,  surface  water,  and  groundwater 
contamination, disposal of hazardous substances, and other environmental matters at several of our current or former facilities, 
facilities  for  which  we  may  have  contractual  responsibility,  and  at  third-party  sites  where  we  have  been  designated  as  a 
potentially responsible party (PRP). A substantial portion of environmental costs will be included in our net sales and cost of 
sales  in  future  periods  pursuant  to  U.S.  Government  regulations.  At  the  time  a  liability  is  recorded  for  future  environmental 
costs,  we  record  assets  for  estimated  future  recovery  considered  probable  through  the  pricing  of  products  and  services  to 
agencies of the U.S. Government, regardless of the contract form (e.g., cost-reimbursable, fixed-price). We continually evaluate 
the recoverability of our assets for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery by assessing, among 
other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S. Government business base and contract mix, and our history of receiving 
reimbursement of such costs. We include the portions of those environmental costs expected to be allocated to our non-U.S. 
government contracts, or determined not to be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, in our cost of sales at the time the 
liability is established or adjusted. 

At  December  31,  2023  and  2022,  the  aggregate  amount  of  liabilities  recorded  relative  to  environmental  matters  was 
$680 million and $696 million, most of which are recorded in other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. 
We have recorded assets for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery totaling $613 million and 
$618  million  at  December  31,  2023  and  2022,  most  of  which  are  recorded  in  other  noncurrent  assets  on  our  consolidated 
balance sheets. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” for more information.

Environmental  remediation  activities  usually  span  many  years,  which  makes  estimating  liabilities  a  matter  of  judgment 
because  of  uncertainties  with  respect  to  assessing  the  extent  of  the  contamination  as  well  as  such  factors  as  changing 
remediation  technologies  and  changing  regulatory  environmental  standards.  We  are  monitoring  or  investigating  a  number  of 
former  and  present  operating  facilities  for  potential  future  remediation.  We  perform  quarterly  reviews  of  the  status  of  our 
environmental remediation sites and the related liabilities and receivables. Additionally, in our quarterly reviews, we consider 
these and other factors in estimating the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remediation activities, 
and  we  record  a  liability  when  it  is  probable  that  a  loss  has  occurred  or  will  occur  for  a  particular  site  and  the  loss  can  be 
reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to be incurred for remediation for 
that site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot 
be reliably determined. We cannot reasonably determine the extent of our financial exposure in all cases as, although a loss may 
be probable or reasonably possible, in some cases it is not possible at this time to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range 
of loss. We project costs and recovery of costs over approximately 20 years. 

We  also  pursue  claims  for  recovery  of  costs  incurred  or  for  contribution  to  site  remediation  costs  against  other  PRPs, 
including  the  U.S.  Government,  and  are  conducting  remediation  activities  under  various  consent  decrees,  orders,  and 
agreements  relating  to  soil,  groundwater,  sediment,  or  surface  water  contamination  at  certain  sites  of  former  or  current 
operations. Under agreements related to certain sites in California, New York, United States Virgin Islands and Washington, the 
U.S. Government and/or a private party reimburses us an amount equal to a percentage, specific to each site, of expenditures for 
certain remediation activities in their capacity as PRPs under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act (CERCLA).

In  addition  to  the  proceedings  and  potential  proceedings  discussed  above,  potential  new  regulations  of  perchlorate  and 
hexavalent chromium at the federal and state level could adversely affect us. In particular, the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) is considering whether to regulate hexavalent chromium at the federal level, and as a result of a court decision, 
must  regulate  perchlorate  at  the  federal  level.  The  California  State  Water  Resources  Control  Board  (SWRCB)  continues  to 
reevaluate  its  existing  drinking  water  standard  of  6  parts  per  billion  (ppb)  for  perchlorate.  The  California  SWRCB  has  also 
proposed to regulate hexavalent chromium at 10 ppb, which we currently do not expect would materially increase our cleanup 
costs  in  California.  If  substantially  lower  standards  are  adopted  for  perchlorate  or  for  hexavalent  chromium,  we  expect  a 
material increase in our estimates for environmental liabilities and the related assets for the portion of the increased costs that 

93

are probable of future recovery in the pricing of our products and services for the U.S. Government. The amount that would be 
allocable to our non-U.S. government contracts or that is determined not to be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts 
would be expensed, which may have a material effect on our earnings in any particular interim reporting period.

We  also  are  evaluating  the  potential  impact  of  existing  and  contemplated  legal  requirements  addressing  a  class  of 
chemicals known generally as per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). PFAS have been used ubiquitously, such as in fire-
fighting foams, manufacturing processes, and stain- and stick-resistant products (e.g., Teflon, stain-resistant fabrics). Because 
we have used products and processes over the years containing some of those compounds, they likely exist as contaminants at 
many  of  our  environmental  remediation  sites.  Governmental  authorities  have  announced  plans,  and  in  some  instances  have 
begun, to regulate certain of these compounds at extremely low concentrations in drinking water, which could lead to increased 
cleanup costs at many of our environmental remediation sites.

Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Third-Party Guarantees

We have entered into standby letters of credit and surety bonds issued on our behalf by financial institutions, and we have 
directly issued guarantees to third parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and the guarantee of future 
performance on certain contracts. Letters of credit and surety bonds generally are available for draw down in the event we do 
not perform. We had total outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds aggregating $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2023 and 
December 31, 2022. Third-party guarantees do not include guarantees issued on behalf of subsidiaries and other consolidated 
entities.

Additionally,  we  may  guarantee  the  contractual  performance  of  third  parties  such  as  joint  venture  partners.  At 
December 31, 2023 and 2022, third-party guarantees totaled $1.0 billion and $904 million, of which approximately 75% and 
71%  related  to  guarantees  of  contractual  performance  of  joint  ventures  to  which  we  currently  are  or  previously  were  a 
party.  These  amounts  represent  our  estimate  of  the  maximum  amounts  we  would  expect  to  incur  upon  the  contractual  non-
performance  of  the  joint  venture,  joint  venture  partners  or  divested  businesses.  Generally,  we  also  have  cross-indemnities  in 
place that may enable us to recover amounts that may be paid on behalf of a joint venture partner. Third-party guarantees do not 
include guarantees issued on behalf of subsidiaries and other consolidated entities. 

In  determining  our  exposures,  we  evaluate  the  reputation,  performance  on  contractual  obligations,  technical  capabilities 
and credit quality of our current and former joint venture partners and the transferee under novation agreements all of which 
include a guarantee as required by the FAR. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, there were no material amounts recorded in our 
financial statements related to third-party guarantees or novation agreements.

Other Contingencies

As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to various audits and investigations by the U.S. Government to determine 
whether  our  operations  are  being  conducted  in  accordance  with  applicable  regulatory  requirements.  U.S.  Government 
investigations  of  us,  whether  relating  to  government  contracts  or  conducted  for  other  reasons,  could  result  in  administrative, 
civil, or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, suspension, proposed debarment, 
debarment from eligibility for future U.S. Government contracting, or suspension of export privileges. Suspension or debarment 
could have a material adverse effect on us because of our dependence on contracts with the U.S. Government. U.S. Government 
investigations  often  take  years  to  complete  and  many  result  in  no  adverse  action  against  us.  We  also  provide  products  and 
services to customers outside of the U.S., which are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and foreign procurement 
policies and practices. Our compliance with local regulations or applicable U.S. Government regulations also may be audited or 
investigated.

In the normal course of business, we provide warranties to our customers associated with certain product sales. We record 
estimated warranty costs in the period in which the related products are delivered. The warranty liability is generally based on 
the number of months of warranty coverage remaining for the products delivered and the average historical monthly warranty 
payments.  Warranty  obligations  incurred  in  connection  with  long-term  production  contracts  are  accounted  for  within  the 
contract estimates at completion.

94

Note 15 – Fair Value Measurements

Assets and liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following (in millions):

December 31, 2023
Level 2

Level 1

Total

Level 3

Total

December 31, 2022
Level 2

Level 1

Level 3

Assets

Mutual funds
U.S. Government securities
Other securities
Derivatives

Liabilities

Derivatives

119 
679 
32 

200 

$  1,025  $  1,025  $ 

— 
333 
— 

—  $ 
119 
301 
32 

—  $ 
— 
45 
— 

897  $ 
118 
660 
18 

897  $ 
— 
333 
— 

—  $ 
118 
264 
18 

— 

200 

— 

196 

— 

196 

— 
— 
63 
— 

— 

Substantially all assets measured at fair value, other than derivatives, represent assets held in a trust to fund certain of our 
non-qualified deferred compensation plan and are recorded in other noncurrent assets on our consolidated balance sheets. As of 
December 31, 2023 and 2022, the fair value of our assets held in the trust totaled $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion. Net gains on 
these securities were $240 million and $205 million in 2023 and 2021 and net losses of $323 million in 2022. Gains and losses 
on these investments are included in other unallocated, net within cost of sales on our consolidated statements of earnings in 
order to align the classification of changes in the market value of investments held for the plan with changes in the value of the 
corresponding plan liabilities. 

The fair values of mutual funds and certain other securities are determined by reference to the quoted market price per 
unit in active markets multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. The fair values of U.S. 
Government and certain other securities are determined using pricing models that use observable inputs (e.g., interest rates and 
yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals), bids provided by brokers or dealers or quoted prices of securities with 
similar characteristics. The fair values of derivative instruments, which consist of foreign currency forward contracts, including 
embedded derivatives, and interest rate swap contracts, are primarily determined based on the present value of future cash flows 
using model-derived valuations that use observable inputs such as interest rates, credit spreads and foreign currency exchange 
rates.

We  use  derivative  instruments  principally  to  reduce  our  exposure  to  market  risks  from  changes  in  foreign  currency 
exchange  rates  and  interest  rates.  We  do  not  enter  into  or  hold  derivative  instruments  for  speculative  trading  purposes.  We 
transact  business  globally  and  are  subject  to  risks  associated  with  changing  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  We  enter  into 
foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. 
Our  most  significant  foreign  currency  exposures  relate  to  the  British  pound  sterling,  the  euro,  the  Canadian  dollar,  the 
Australian dollar, the Norwegian kroner and the Polish zloty. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in 
order to minimize fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We 
designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. We also are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily 
through  our  borrowing  activities.  For  fixed  rate  borrowings,  we  may  use  variable  interest  rate  swaps,  effectively  converting 
fixed  rate  borrowings  to  variable  rate  borrowings  in  order  to  hedge  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  the  debt.  These  swaps  are 
designated  as  fair  value  hedges.  For  variable  rate  borrowings,  we  may  use  fixed  interest  rate  swaps,  effectively  converting 
variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to minimize the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. These 
swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and 
do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to minimize certain economic exposures.

The  aggregate  notional  amount  of  our  outstanding  interest  rate  swaps  was  $1.3  billion  at  both  December  31,  2023  and 
2022.  The  aggregate  notional  amount  of  our  outstanding  foreign  currency  hedges  at  December  31,  2023  and  2022  was 
$6.5 billion and $7.3 billion. The fair values of our outstanding interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges at December 31, 
2023 and 2022 were not significant. Derivative instruments did not have a material impact on net earnings and comprehensive 
income  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2023  and  2022.  The  impact  of  derivative  instruments  on  our  consolidated 
statements  of  cash  flows  is  included  in  net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities.  Substantially  all  of  our  derivatives  are 
designated  for  hedge  accounting.  See  “Note  1  –  Organization  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies  -  Derivative  financial 
instruments.”

We  also  make  investments  in  early-stage  companies  that  we  believe  are  advancing  or  developing  new  technologies 
applicable to our business. Investments that have quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1) are recorded at fair value and 
reflected in other securities while certain investments are categorized as Level 3 when valuations using observable inputs are 
unavailable. See “Note 1 – Organization and Significant Accounting Policies - Investments.”

95

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the financial instruments listed in the table above, we hold other financial instruments, including cash and 
cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and debt. The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, receivables and 
accounts  payable  approximated  their  fair  values.  The  estimated  fair  value  of  our  outstanding  debt  was  $18.5  billion  and 
$16.0 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022. The outstanding principal amount of debt, including short-term and long-term 
debt, was $18.7 billion and $16.8 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022, excluding $1.3 billion of unamortized discounts and 
issuance costs at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. The estimated fair values of our outstanding debt were determined based 
on the present value of future cash flows using model-derived valuations that use observable inputs such as interest rates and 
credit spreads (Level 2).

Note 16 – Severance and Other Charges

During the fourth quarter of 2023, we recorded severance and other charges of $92 million ($73 million, or $0.30 per share, 
after-tax)  associated  with  severance  costs  for  the  planned  reduction  of  certain  positions  across  the  corporation  and  asset 
impairment  charges.  Upon  separation,  terminated  employees  will  receive  lump-sum  severance  payments  primarily  based  on 
years of service, the majority of which are expected to be paid over the next several quarters. This action resulted from a review 
of our business segments and corporate functions and is intended to improve the efficiency of our operations. 

During the fourth quarter of 2022, we recorded severance and other charges totaling $100 million ($79 million, or $0.31 
per share, after-tax) related to actions at our RMS business segment, which include severance costs for reduction of positions 
and  asset  impairment  charges.  After  a  strategic  review  of  RMS,  these  actions  improved  the  efficiency  of  our  operations  and 
better aligned the organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions and changes in program lifecycles. 

During 2021, we recognized severance charges totaling $36 million ($28 million, or $0.10 per share, after-tax) related to 
workforce reductions and facility exit costs within our RMS business segment. These actions were taken to consolidate certain 
operations  in  order  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  RMS’  manufacturing  operations  and  the  affordability  of  its  products  and 
services. Employees terminated as part of these actions will receive lump-sum severance payments upon separation primarily 
based on years of service.

We  generally  can  recover  a  portion  of  severance  costs  through  the  pricing  of  our  products  and  services  to  the  U.S. 

Government and other customers in future periods, which will be included in our operating results.

96

ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2023. The 
evaluation was performed with the participation of senior management of each business segment and key corporate functions, 
under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Based on this evaluation, the 
CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2023.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our  management  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate  internal  control  over  financial  reporting.  Our 
internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and Board of Directors regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes.

Our  management  conducted  an  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of 
December 31, 2023. This assessment was based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway  Commission  in  Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework  (2013  framework).  Based  on  this  assessment,  management 
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2023.

Our  independent  registered  public  accounting  firm  has  issued  a  report  on  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over 

financial reporting, which is below.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required 
by  Rules  13a-15(d)  and  15d-15(d)  of  the  Exchange  Act  that  occurred  during  the  quarter  ended  December  31,  2023  that 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

97

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Regarding Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Lockheed Martin Corporation

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited Lockheed Martin Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based 
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Lockheed Martin Corporation (the Corporation) 
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on the 
COSO criteria.

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States)  (PCAOB),  the  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  the  Corporation  as  of  December  31,  2023  and  2022,  the  related 
consolidated  statements  of  earnings,  comprehensive  income,  equity  and  cash  flows  for  each  of  the  three  years  in  the  period 
ended  December  31,  2023,  and  the  related  notes  and  our  report  dated  January  23,  2024  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion 
thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report 
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation’s internal control 
over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be 
independent  with  respect  to  the  Corporation  in  accordance  with  the  U.S.  federal  securities  laws  and  the  applicable  rules  and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all 
material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and 
performing  such  other  procedures  as  we  considered  necessary  in  the  circumstances.  We  believe  that  our  audit  provides  a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted  accounting  principles.  A  company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  includes  those  policies  and  procedures 
that  (1)  pertain  to  the  maintenance  of  records  that,  in  reasonable  detail,  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the  transactions  and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation  of  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  and  that  receipts  and 
expenditures  of  the  company  are  being  made  only  in  accordance  with  authorizations  of  management  and  directors  of  the 
company;  and  (3)  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention  or  timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections  of  any  evaluation  of  effectiveness  to  future  periods  are  subject  to  the  risk  that  controls  may  become  inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Tysons, Virginia
January 23, 2024 

98

ITEM 9B.

Other Information

None  of  our  directors  or  executive  officers  adopted  or  terminated  a  Rule  10b5-1  trading  arrangement  or  adopted  or 
terminated  a  non-Rule  10b5-1  trading  arrangement  (as  defined  in  Item  408(c)  of  Regulation  S-K)  during  the  quarter  ended 
December 31, 2023.

ITEM 9C.

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 

Not applicable.

ITEM 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

PART III

The information concerning directors required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is included under the section titled “Director 
Nominees” in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the end of the fiscal 
year to which this report relates (the 2024 Proxy Statement), and that information is incorporated by reference in this Annual 
Report  on  Form  10-K  (Form  10-K).  Information  concerning  executive  officers  required  by  Item  401  of  Regulation  S-K  is 
located under Part I, Item 4(a) of this Form 10-K. The information required by Items 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is 
included in the sections titled “Corporate Governance” and “Audit Committee Report” in the 2024 Proxy Statement, and that 
information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

We have had a written code of ethics in place since our formation in 1995. Setting the Standard, our Code of Ethics and 
Business  Conduct,  applies  to  all  our  employees,  including  our  principal  executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,  and 
principal  accounting  officer  and  controller,  and  to  members  of  our  Board  of  Directors.  A  copy  of  our  Code  of  Ethics  and 
Business Conduct is available on our investor relations website: www.lockheedmartin.com/investor. Printed copies of our Code 
of  Ethics  and  Business  Conduct  may  be  obtained,  without  charge,  by  contacting  Investor  Relations,  Lockheed  Martin 
Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. We are required to disclose any change to, or waiver from, our 
Code  of  Ethics  and  Business  Conduct  for  our  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  senior  financial  officers.  We  use  our  website  to 
disseminate this disclosure as permitted by applicable SEC rules. 

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is included in the sections titled “Executive Compensation” and 
“Director Compensation” in the 2024 Proxy Statement and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The 
information required by Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K is included under the caption “Compensation Committee Report” in 
the 2024 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

99

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The  information  required  by  Item  12  related  to  the  security  ownership  of  management  and  certain  beneficial  owners  is 
included  in  the  section  titled  “Other  Information”  in  the  2024  Proxy  Statement,  and  that  information  is  incorporated  by 
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The  following  table  provides  information  about  our  equity  compensation  plans  that  authorize  the  issuance  of  shares  of 

Lockheed Martin common stock to employees and directors. The information is provided as of December 31, 2023.

Plan category

Equity compensation plans approved by 
security holders (1)
Equity compensation plans not approved by 
   security holders (2)

Total

Number of securities to 
be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding options, 
warrants and rights
(a)

Weighted-average 
exercise price of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights
(b)

Number of securities 
remaining available for 
future issuance under 
equity compensation plans 
(excluding securities 
reflected in column (a))
(c)

2,333,795 

483,204 

2,816,999 

$ 

$ 

— 

— 

— 

6,066,491 

2,503,225 

8,569,716 

(1) Column (a) includes, as of December 31, 2023: 1,596,538 shares that have been granted as restricted stock units (RSUs) and 653,580 
shares that could be earned pursuant to grants of performance stock units (PSUs) (assuming the maximum number of PSUs are earned 
and payable at the end of the three-year performance period) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2020 Incentive Performance Award 
Plan  (2020  IPA  Plan)  or  predecessor  plans  and  83,677  stock  units  payable  in  stock  or  cash  under  the  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation 
Amended and Restated Directors Equity Plan (Directors Plan) or predecessor plans for non-employee directors. Column (c) includes, as 
of  December  31,  2023,  5,701,281  shares  available  for  future  issuance  under  the  2020  IPA  Plan  as  options,  stock  appreciation  rights, 
restricted stock awards, RSUs or PSUs and 365,210 shares available for future issuance under the Directors Plan as stock options and 
stock units. Vested stock units are payable to directors upon their termination of service from our Board, except that directors who have 
satisfied the stock ownership guidelines may elect to have payment of awards made after January 1, 2018 (together with any dividend 
equivalents thereon) made on the first business day of April following the one-year anniversary of the grant. 

(2)

The shares represent annual incentive bonuses and Long-Term Incentive Performance (LTIP) payments earned and voluntarily deferred 
by  employees.  The  deferred  amounts  are  payable  under  the  Deferred  Management  Incentive  Compensation  Plan  (DMICP).  Deferred 
amounts are credited as phantom stock units at the closing price of our stock on the date the deferral is effective. Amounts equal to our 
dividend are credited as stock units at the time we pay a dividend. Following termination of employment, a number of shares of stock 
equal to the number of stock units credited to the employee’s DMICP account are distributed to the employee. There is no discount or 
value transfer on the stock distributed. Distributions may be made from newly issued shares or shares purchased on the open market. 
Historically,  all  distributions  have  come  from  shares  held  in  a  separate  trust  and,  therefore,  do  not  further  dilute  our  common  shares 
outstanding.  Because  the  DMICP  shares  are  outstanding,  they  should  be  included  in  the  denominator  (and  not  the  numerator)  of  a 
dilution calculation.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The  information  required  by  Item  404  and  407(a)  of  Regulation  S-K  is  included  in  the  section  titled  “Corporate 

Governance” in the 2024 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this Item 14 is included in the section titled “Audit Matters” in the 2024 Proxy Statement, and 

that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

100

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

List of financial statements filed as part of this Form 10-K

PART IV

The following financial statements of Lockheed Martin Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of 

this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K) at the page numbers referenced below:

Consolidated Statements of Earnings – Years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 .................................................
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income – Years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021..........................
Consolidated Balance Sheets – At December 31, 2023 and 2022 ........................................................................................
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows – Years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021.............................................
Consolidated Statements of Equity – Years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 .....................................................
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.........................................................................................................................

Page
56
57
58
59
60
61

The report of Lockheed Martin Corporation’s independent registered public accounting firm (PCAOB ID:42) with respect 
to the above-referenced financial statements and their report on internal control over financial reporting are included in Item 8 
and Item 9A of this Form 10-K at the page numbers referenced below. Their consent appears as Exhibit 23 of this Form 10-K.
Page
53
98

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements ...............
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Regarding Internal Control Over Financial Reporting ..........

List of financial statement schedules filed as part of this Form 10-K

All  schedules  have  been  omitted  because  they  are  not  applicable,  not  required  or  the  information  has  been  otherwise 

supplied in the consolidated financial statements or notes to consolidated financial statements.

Exhibits

3.1

3.2

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

4.6

4.7

Charter  of  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation,  as  amended  by  Articles  of  Amendment  dated  April  23,  2009 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2010).

Bylaws of Lockheed Martin Corporation, as amended and restated effective February 22, 2023 (incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on 
February 23, 2023).

Description of Lockheed Martin Corporation Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021).

Indenture,  dated  May  15,  1996,  among  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation,  Lockheed  Martin  Tactical  Systems,  Inc. 
and First Trust of Illinois, National Association as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Lockheed 
Martin Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017).

Indenture,  dated  as  of  August  30,  2006,  between  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  and  The  Bank  of  New  York 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the SEC on August 31, 2006).

Indenture,  dated  as  of  March  11,  2008,  between  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  and  The  Bank  of  New  York 
(incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation’s  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed 
with the SEC on March 12, 2008).

Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2010, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the SEC on May 25, 2010).

Indenture,  dated  as  of  September  6,  2011,  between  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  and  U.S.  Bank  National 
Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Registration Statement 
on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on April 24, 2020).

Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 21, 2022, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank Trust 
Company, National Association, to the Indenture dated September 6, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
4.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 21, 2022).

101

4.8

4.9

4.10

10.1

10.2

10.3

10.4

10.5

10.6

10.7

10.8

10.9

10.10

10.11

10.12

10.13

10.14

10.15

Indenture,  dated  as  of  December  14,  2012,  between  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  and  U.S.  Bank  National 
Association  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  99.1  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation’s  Current  Report  on 
Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 17, 2012).

Indenture dated as of September 7, 2017, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank National 
Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of Lockheed Martin's Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the SEC on September 7, 2012).

Indenture, dated as of April 18, 2023, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank Trust Company, 
National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s 
Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on April 18, 2023).

See also Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, copies of instruments defining the rights of certain holders of 
long-term debt are not filed. The Corporation will furnish copies thereof to the SEC upon request.

Revolving  Credit  Agreement  dated  as  of  August  24,  2022,  among  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation,  the  lenders 
listed therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 24, 2022).

Extension  Agreement  dated  as  of  August  24,  2023,  by  and  among  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation,  the  lenders 
listed therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 24, 2023).

Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Lockheed Martin 
Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2022).

Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit  10.2  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation’s  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended 
September 24, 2023).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Directors  Equity  Plan,  as  amended  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 2, 2006).

Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated Directors Equity Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 26, 2018).

Form  of  Indemnification  Agreement  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.34  to  Lockheed  Martin 
Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Supplemental  Savings  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  effective  January  1,  2015 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 29, 2015).

Amendment  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Supplemental  Savings  Plan  and  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation 
Nonqualified  Capital  Accumulation  Program,  dated  December  18,  2019  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 
10.31 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Nonqualified  Capital  Accumulation  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  generally 
effective as of December 18, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Deferred  Management  Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated 
effective January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019).

Amendment No.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as 
amended and restated effective January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Lockheed Martin 
Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020).

Amendment No. 2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as 
amended and restated effective January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Lockheed Martin 
Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2022).

Amendment  No.  3  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Deferred  Management  Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  as 
amended  and  restated  generally  effective  January  1,  2020  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.13  to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Amended  and  Restated  2021  Management  Incentive  Compensation  Plan 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 26, 2023).

102

10.16

10.17

10.18

10.19

10.20

10.21

10.22

10.23

10.24

10.25

10.26

10.27

10.28

10.29

10.30

10.31

10.32

10.33

Lockheed Martin Corporation 2020 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 
to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 23, 2020).

Form  of  2021  Annual  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  the  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  2020 
Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 28, 2021).

Form  of  Performance  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  (2021  -  2023  Performance  Period)  under  the  Lockheed 
Martin  Corporation  2020  Incentive  Performance  Award  Plan  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 28, 2021).

Form  of  Long  Term  Incentive  Performance  Award  Agreement  (2021  -  2023  Performance  Period)  under  the 
Lockheed Martin Corporation 2020 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 28, 2021).

Form  of  2022  Annual  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  the  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  2020 
Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2022).

Form  of  Performance  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  (2022  -  2024  Performance  Period)  under  the  Lockheed 
Martin  Corporation  2020  Incentive  Performance  Award  Plan  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2022).

Form  of  Long  Term  Incentive  Performance  Award  Agreement  (2022  -  2024  Performance  Period)  under  the 
Lockheed Martin Corporation 2020 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2022).

Form  of  2023  Annual  Restricted  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  under  the  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  2020 
Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2023).

Form  of  Performance  Stock  Unit  Award  Agreement  (2023  -  2025  Performance  Period)  under  the  Lockheed 
Martin  Corporation  2020  Incentive  Performance  Award  Plan  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.2  to 
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2023).

Form  of  Long  Term  Incentive  Performance  Award  Agreement  (2023  -  2025  Performance  Period)  under  the 
Lockheed Martin Corporation 2020 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2023).

Amendment to Outstanding Long-Term Incentive Performance and Performance Stock Unit Award Agreements 
(effective June 24, 2021) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 2021).

Amendment to Outstanding Long-Term Incentive Performance and Performance Stock Unit Award Agreements 
(effective  February  22,  2023)  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2023).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Consolidated  Supplemental  Retirement  Benefit  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated 
effective October 5, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018).

Amendment  to  Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Consolidated  Supplemental  Retirement  Benefit  Plan,  as  amended 
and  restated  effective  October  5,  2018  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.9  to  Lockheed  Martin 
Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2022).

Lockheed  Martin  Corporation  Executive  Severance  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated  effective  December  1,  2016 
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the year ended December 31, 2016).

Amendment No. 1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective 
December 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 24, 2018).

Amendment No. 2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective 
December 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2020).

Amendment No. 3 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective 
December 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2020).

103

10.34

10.35

21

23

24

31.1

31.2

32

97

Amendment No. 4 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective 
December 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2022).

Amendment No. 5 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective 
December 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to Lockheed Martin Corporation’s Annual Report 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022).

Subsidiaries of Lockheed Martin Corporation.

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

Powers of Attorney.

Certification of James D. Taiclet pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Certification of Jesus Malave pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Certification of James D. Taiclet and Jesus Malave pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Recovery of Incentive-Based Compensation from Executive Officers in Event of Accounting Restatement.

101.INS

XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL 
tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document

101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

104

Cover Page Interactive Data File - the cover page XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document 
contained in Exhibit 101

* 

Exhibits 10.3 through 10.35 constitute management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

ITEM 16.

Form 10-K Summary

None. 

104

 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused 

this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

SIGNATURES

Date: January 23, 2024

Lockheed Martin Corporation
(Registrant)

By:

/s/ H. Edward Paul III
H. Edward Paul III
Vice President and Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 

persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures

Titles

/s/ James D. Taiclet
James D. Taiclet

/s/ Jesus Malave
Jesus Malave

/s/ H. Edward Paul III
H. Edward Paul III
*
Daniel F. Akerson
*
David B. Burritt
*
Bruce A. Carlson
*
John M. Donovan
*
Joseph F. Dunford, Jr.
*
James O. Ellis, Jr.
*
Thomas J. Falk
*
Ilene S. Gordon
*

Vicki A. Hollub
*
Jeh C. Johnson
*
Debra L. Reed-Klages
*
Patricia E. Yarrington

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)

Date

January 23, 2024

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial 
Officer)

January 23, 2024

Vice President and Controller (Principal 
Accounting Officer)

January 23, 2024

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

Director

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

January 23, 2024

*By Maryanne R. Lavan pursuant to a Power of Attorney executed by the Directors listed above, which has been filed 
with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Date: January 23, 2024

By:

/s/ Maryanne R. Lavan

Maryanne R. Lavan

Attorney-in-fact

105

(This  page  has been left blank intentionally.)

CERTIFICATION OF JAMES D. TAICLET PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 31.1

I, James D. Taiclet, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 

material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 

present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, 
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls 
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial 
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to 
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including 
its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the 
period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial 

reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures, and presented in this 

report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred 
during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 

control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 

financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, 
summarize, and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 

role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  January 23, 2024

/s/ James D. Taiclet
James D. Taiclet
Chief Executive Officer

  
  
  
  
CERTIFICATION OF JESUS MALAVE PURSUANT TO
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 31.2

I, Jesus Malave, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 

material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements 
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 

present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, 
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls 
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial 
reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to 
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including 
its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the 
period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial 

reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures, and presented in this 

report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred 
during the registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 

control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 

financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, 
summarize, and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 

role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  January 23, 2024

/s/ Jesus Malave
Jesus Malave
Chief Financial Officer

Exhibit 32

CERTIFICATION OF JAMES D. TAICLET AND JESUS MALAVE PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Lockheed Martin Corporation (the “Corporation”) on Form 10-K for the 
period ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof 
(the “Report”), I, James D. Taiclet, Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and I, Jesus Malave, Chief Financial 
Officer of the Corporation, each certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

(1)

(2)

The Report fully  complies with  the  requirements  of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934; and
The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition 
and results of operations of the Corporation.

/s/ James D. Taiclet
James D. Taiclet
Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Jesus Malave
Jesus Malave
Chief Financial Officer

Date: January 23, 2024

(This  page  has been left blank intentionally.)

USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
This  annual  report  contains  non-generally  accepted  accounting  principles  (non-GAAP)  financial  measures.  While  we 
believe  that  these  non-GAAP  financial  measures  may  be  useful  in  evaluating  the  financial  performance  of  Lockheed 
Martin,  this  information  should  be  considered  supplemental  and  is  not  a  substitute  for  financial  information  prepared  in 
accordance with GAAP. In addition, our definitions for non-GAAP measures may differ from similarly titled measures used 
by other companies or analysts.

Segment operating profit / margin

Segment operating profit represents operating profit from our business segments before unallocated income and expense. 
This  measure  is  used  by  our  senior  management  in  evaluating  the  performance  of  our  business  segments  and  is  a 
performance goal in our annual incentive plan. The caption “total unallocated items” reconciles segment operating profit to 
consolidated operating profit. Segment margin is calculated by dividing segment operating profit by net sales. 

Effective  January  1,  2023,  we  no  longer  consider  amortization  expense  related  to  purchased  intangible  assets  when 
evaluating  the  operating  performance  of  our  business  segments.  This  change  has  been  applied  to  the  accompanying 
amounts below, including the amounts for 2022 and 2021.

In millions
Net sales
Consolidated operating profit
 Unallocated items

FAS/CAS operating adjustment
Intangible asset amortization expense
Severance and other charges
Other, net

Less: Total unallocated items
Business segment operating profit (Non-GAAP)
Consolidated operating margin
Segment operating margin (Non-GAAP)

Free cash flow

2022

2023

2021
$  67,571  $  65,984  $  67,044 
9,123 
$ 

8,507  $ 

8,348  $ 

1,660 
(247) 
(92) 
(203) 
1,118 
7,389  $ 
 12.6 %
 10.9 %

1,709 
(248) 
(100) 
(480) 
881 
7,467  $ 
 12.7 %
 11.3 %

1,960 
(285) 
(36) 
(180) 
1,459 
7,664 
 13.6 %
 11.4 %

$ 

Free cash flow is cash from operations less capital expenditures. The company's capital expenditures are comprised of 
equipment and facilities infrastructure and information technology (inclusive of costs for the development or purchase of 
internal-use software that are capitalized). The company uses free cash flow to evaluate its business performance and 
overall liquidity and it is a performance goal in the company's annual and long-term incentive plans. The company 
believes free cash flow is a useful measure for investors because it represents the amount of cash generated from 
operations after reinvesting in the business and that may be available to return to stockholders and creditors (through 
dividends, stock repurchases and debt repayments) or available to fund acquisitions or other investments. The entire free 
cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures, however, because it does not account for 
certain mandatory expenditures, such as the repayment of maturing debt and pension contributions.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This  page  has been left blank intentionally.)

GENERAL INFORMATION 

TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND DISBURSING AGENT
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 
Shareholder Services 
P.O. Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940  
Telephone: 1-877-498-8861 
TDD for the hearing impaired: 1-800-952-9245 
Internet: www.computershare.com/investor
Overnight correspondence should be mailed to:

Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
150 Royall Street, Suite 101
Canton, MA 02021 

ELECTRONIC DELIVERY 
Stockholders  are  encouraged  to  enroll  in  electronic  delivery  to  receive  all  stockholder  communications,  including  proxy 
voting materials, electronically, by visiting Shareholder Services at www.lockheedmartin.com/investor   

DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN 
Lockheed Martin participates in a direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan offered by Computershare Trust 
Company, N.A. through which new investors may make an initial investment in Lockheed Martin common stock and 
existing stockholders may increase their holdings of Lockheed Martin common stock and/or to reinvest dividends paid on 
Lockheed Martin common stock. For more information, contact Computershare Trust Company, N.A. at 1-877-498-8861, 
or view plan materials online and enroll electronically at www.computershare.com/investor. 

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
Ernst & Young LLP 
1775 Tysons Boulevard 
Tysons, VA 22102 
Telephone: 703-747-1000 

COMMON STOCK 
Stock symbol: LMT 
Listed: New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 

2023 FORM 10-K 
Our 2023 Form 10-K is included in this Annual Report in its entirety with the exception of certain exhibits. All of the exhibits 
may  be  obtained  on  our  Investor  Relations  homepage  at  www.lockheedmartin.com/investor  or  by  accessing  our  filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Lockheed Martin Corporation
6801 Rockledge Drive
Bethesda, MD 20817
www.lockheedmartin.com 

This report is printed on paper that is FSC® certified, and is 
manufactured elemental chlorine free.

© 2024 Lockheed Martin Corporation

